packages/docs/content/guidelines/accessibility.mdx, before:

---
title: Accessibility
order: 10
---

The CMS Design System strives to work for as many people as possible, including people with disabilities.

## What we do to help meet and exceed standards

- Embed [accessibility and inclusive design practices](https://accessibility.digital.gov/) into our workflow.
- Provide accessibility as a [checkpoint in new components](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/blob/main/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/component-validation-checklist.md) created in the design system.
- Add accessibility as a key aspect to much of the component documentation.
- Conduct regular accessibility reviews of new and existing features and documentation for the design system.
- Use [Axe libraries](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@axe-core/playwright) for automated accessibility testing in our end to end testing.

### We test with these assistive technology pairings

| Operating system      | Browser                 | Screen reader         |
| --------------------- | ----------------------- | --------------------- |
| OS X 13.2.1 (Ventura) | Safari (latest version) | VoiceOver             |
| Windows 10            | Chrome (latest version) | NVDA (latest version) |
| Windows 10            | Edge (latest version)   | JAWS 2021             |
| iOS (latest version)  | Safari (latest version) | N/A                   |

## What level we meet currently

The CMS Design System currently meets or exceeds [WCAG 2.0 AA](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/) and [Section 508](http://www.section508.gov/) standards, which requires information and communications technology developed, procured, maintained, or used by the federal government be accessible to both employees and members of the public with disabilities.

More information on Section 508 can be found at:

- [United States Access Board](http://www.access-board.gov/508.htm)
- [Section508.gov](http://www.section508.gov)
- [HHS Digital Communications Division](http://www.hhs.gov/web/508)

## Current browser/technology support

The current browser support for the design system [can be viewed here](/guidelines/browser-support/). 


## How to provide feedback

If you cannot access any content or use any features on this website due to a disability, please reach out and include the URL and/or other identifying information.

- [Contact the CMS Design System team](https://cms.gov1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_eqTlI7HbrXthrlX)
- File a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=general-issue.md&title=).
- Contact the CMS Section 508 Team via email at [508Feedback@cms.hhs.gov](mailto:508Feedback@cms.hhs.gov).

Commit message:

[WNMGDS-2158] Mention our component maturity checklists on the Accessibility page (#2680)
Mention our component maturity checklists on the Accessibility page

packages/docs/content/guidelines/accessibility.mdx, after:

---
title: Accessibility
order: 10
---

The CMS Design System strives to work for as many people as possible, including people with disabilities.

## What we do to help meet and exceed standards

- Embed [accessibility and inclusive design practices](https://accessibility.digital.gov/) into our workflow.
- Provide accessibility as a [checkpoint in new components](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/blob/main/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/component-validation-checklist.md) created in the design system.
- Add accessibility as a key aspect to much of the component documentation.
- Conduct regular accessibility reviews of new and existing features and documentation for the design system.
- Use [Axe libraries](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@axe-core/playwright) for automated accessibility testing in our end to end testing.

### We test with these assistive technology pairings

| Operating system      | Browser                 | Screen reader         |
| --------------------- | ----------------------- | --------------------- |
| OS X 13.2.1 (Ventura) | Safari (latest version) | VoiceOver             |
| Windows 10            | Chrome (latest version) | NVDA (latest version) |
| Windows 10            | Edge (latest version)   | JAWS 2021             |
| iOS (latest version)  | Safari (latest version) | N/A                   |

## What level we meet currently

The CMS Design System currently meets or exceeds [WCAG 2.0 AA](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/) and [Section 508](http://www.section508.gov/) standards, which requires information and communications technology developed, procured, maintained, or used by the federal government be accessible to both employees and members of the public with disabilities.

Additionally, each component page has its own _component maturity_ checklist which includes a summary of the efforts made toward accessibility. For more information about how we tested and validated our work for each checklist item, [read our component maturity documentation](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/blob/main/COMPONENT_MATURITY.md).

More information on Section 508 can be found at:

- [United States Access Board](http://www.access-board.gov/508.htm)
- [Section508.gov](http://www.section508.gov)
- [HHS Digital Communications Division](http://www.hhs.gov/web/508)

## Current browser/technology support

The current browser support for the design system [can be viewed here](/guidelines/browser-support/). 


## How to provide feedback

If you cannot access any content or use any features on this website due to a disability, please reach out and include the URL and/or other identifying information.

- [Contact the CMS Design System team](https://cms.gov1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_eqTlI7HbrXthrlX)
- File a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=general-issue.md&title=).
- Contact the CMS Section 508 Team via email at [508Feedback@cms.hhs.gov](mailto:508Feedback@cms.hhs.gov).
