packages/docs/content/components/text-field/label-masked-field.mdx, before:

---
title: Label-Masked Field
intro: A label-masked field is a text-field pattern that provides instant, visual feedback about how inputed data is being interpreted without creating a noisy aural experience.
core:
  githubLink: design-system/src/components/LabelMask
  storybookLink: components-text-field--label-masked-currency
---

## Examples

This component formats the user input in the label as the user types to provide visual feedback about the data. The text in the input field itself will not be formatted until the field loses focus, which is when we know the user has finished typing. We do this to provide a quieter and more usable experience for all users. It is an updated alternative to our [Masked Field](/components/text-field/masked-field/).

The label-mask currently has five built-in implementations: _currency_, _phone number_, _social security number_, _zip code_, and _date_. The date mask is implemented by the [Calendar Picker](/components/date-field/date-picker/) and [Single-Input Date Field](/components/date-field/single-input-date-field/) components, while the rest are available for direct use with the [Text Field](/components/text-field/) component.

### Currency

<StorybookExample
  componentName="currency"
  storyId="components-text-field--label-masked-currency"
/>

### Phone number

<StorybookExample
  componentName="phone"
  storyId="components-text-field--label-masked-phone"
/>

### Social Security number

<StorybookExample
  componentName="ssn"
  storyId="components-text-field--label-masked-ssn"
/>

### Zip code

<StorybookExample
  componentName="zip"
  storyId="components-text-field--label-masked-postal-code"
/>

## Code 

### React

Passing a `labelMask` prop into a [`TextField`](/components/text-field/) component with a valid masking function will turn it into a label mask. You can either import one of the named, built-in mask functions (`SSN_MASK`, `ZIP_MASK`, `PHONE_MASK`, or `CURRENCY_MASK`), or you can provide a custom mask function. The following table shows the `TextField` prop that is specific to label masks:

<PropTable componentName="TextField" subset={["labelMask"]} />

#### Example

```js
import { TextField, SSN_MASK } from '@cmsgov/design-system';

export const MyComponent = () => (
  <TextField
    label="Social security number (SSN)"
    labelMask={SSN_MASK}
    name="ssn_example"
  />
);
```

### Styles

## Guidance

## Learn more

- [labelmask, a blog post by Brad Frost](https://bradfrost.com/blog/post/labelmask/) - the inspiration for this component

## Component maturity

<MaturityChecklist
  a11yStandards={true}
  color={true}
  forcedColors={true}
  screenReaders={true}
  keyboardNavigable={true}
  storybook={true}
  responsive={true}
  spanish={null}
  completeUiKit={false}
  responsiveUiKit={false}
  tokensInCode={true}
  tokensInSketch={true}
/>

Commit message:

Took some guidance from USWDS
https://designsystem.digital.gov/components/input-mask/

packages/docs/content/components/text-field/label-masked-field.mdx, after:

---
title: Label-Masked Field
intro: A label-masked field is a text-field pattern that provides instant, visual feedback about how inputed data is being interpreted without creating a noisy aural experience.
core:
  githubLink: design-system/src/components/LabelMask
  storybookLink: components-text-field--label-masked-currency
---

## Examples

This component formats the user input in the label as the user types to provide visual feedback about the data. The text in the input field itself will not be formatted until the field loses focus, which is when we know the user has finished typing. We do this to provide a quieter and more usable experience for all users. It is an updated alternative to our [Masked Field](/components/text-field/masked-field/).

The label-mask currently has five built-in implementations: _currency_, _phone number_, _social security number_, _zip code_, and _date_. The date mask is implemented by the [Calendar Picker](/components/date-field/date-picker/) and [Single-Input Date Field](/components/date-field/single-input-date-field/) components, while the rest are available for direct use with the [Text Field](/components/text-field/) component.

### Currency

<StorybookExample
  componentName="currency"
  storyId="components-text-field--label-masked-currency"
/>

### Phone number

<StorybookExample
  componentName="phone"
  storyId="components-text-field--label-masked-phone"
/>

### Social Security number

<StorybookExample
  componentName="ssn"
  storyId="components-text-field--label-masked-ssn"
/>

### Zip code

<StorybookExample
  componentName="zip"
  storyId="components-text-field--label-masked-postal-code"
/>

## Code 

### React

Passing a `labelMask` prop into a [`TextField`](/components/text-field/) component with a valid masking function will turn it into a label mask. You can either import one of the named, built-in mask functions (`SSN_MASK`, `ZIP_MASK`, `PHONE_MASK`, or `CURRENCY_MASK`), or you can provide a custom mask function. The following table shows the `TextField` prop that is specific to label masks:

<PropTable componentName="TextField" subset={["labelMask"]} />

#### Example

```js
import { TextField, SSN_MASK } from '@cmsgov/design-system';

export const MyComponent = () => (
  <TextField
    label="Social security number (SSN)"
    labelMask={SSN_MASK}
    name="ssn_example"
  />
);
```

### Styles

## Guidance

### When to use

- In fields with a specific expected format like Social Security Number or ZIP code, a label mask allows you to constrain and shape the information being entered without impairing the user's ability to copy/paste or correct mistyping

### When to consider alternatives

- When the input requires a free-form field. When there isn't a common input pattern to use, masking is not appropriate.
- When the pattern is too complicated to allow for a valid label mask. A pattern like email, with many possible scenarios for input, is not a good candidate for masking. Allow the user to enter their email address (or other complicated data) and have your validation library confirm before form submission.

### Usage

- Only show error validation messages or stylings after a user has interacted with a particular field

## Learn more

- [labelmask, a blog post by Brad Frost](https://bradfrost.com/blog/post/labelmask/) - the inspiration for this component

## Component maturity

<MaturityChecklist
  a11yStandards={true}
  color={true}
  forcedColors={true}
  screenReaders={true}
  keyboardNavigable={true}
  storybook={true}
  responsive={true}
  spanish={null}
  completeUiKit={false}
  responsiveUiKit={false}
  tokensInCode={true}
  tokensInSketch={true}
/>
