packages/docs/content/migration-guides/introducing-a-css-reset.mdx, before:

---
title: Introducing a CSS reset
order: 10
---

The design system's CSS reset is a collection of HTML element-specific styles that simplifies the development process while providing cross-browser sensible defaults to build from.

Our reset CSS is bundled with the rest of the design system's styles, so to use it all you need to do is [import the design system's CSS](/getting-started/for-developers/#including-the-css) using your preferred method. Even if you haven't imported one of our components, your application should visually align with the design system.

If you're curious to see what changes have been made, you can preview our reset styles in [Storybook](/storybook/?path=/story/reset-overview--overview). We'll break down the major changes for you to review below.

## Global defaults

The CSS reset introduces globally-defined defaults that will impact the entire application once the CSS has been imported. These defaults include (but aren't limited to):

- `box-sizing: border-box` is set on every element — including `*::before` and `*::after`. This ensures that the declared width of element is never exceeded due to padding or border.
- The `<html>` element has `scroll-behavior: smooth` set on `:focus-within`. This is a CSS-only solution that provides smooth anchor scrolling.
- Animations, transitions, and smooth scroll are removed on all elements - including `*::before` and `*::after` for users who have `prefers-reduced-motion` enabled to respect their preferences.
- The `<body>` element effectively replaces the `.ds-base` class, defining `font-family`, `font-size`, `line-height`, and `color`.
  - In addition, `<body>` now sets `background-color` to a theme's specified background.
- The `outline` is removed on elements with the `tabindex="-1"` declared. This removes focus rings for non-interactive elements, e.g., when activating a skip link will then send focus to a `<main>` or heading element.
- To avoid [margin collapse](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Box_Model/Mastering_margin_collapsing), all elements will only rely on their respective top margins to better control layout. All bottom margins have been removed.

## Typography

### Headings

All heading elements will receive the font styles defined by their parent element using the `font: inherit` rule. 

[`font`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font) is a shorthand property that encompasses several font styles, but the key thing to note is a heading will now inherit the `font-family` and `font-size` of its parent or `<body>` element. This rule ensures the semantics of a heading element are distinct from its appearance. If you need to style a heading, refer to our [headings](/foundation/typography/headings/) or [utility class](/utilities/overview/) documentation.

### Links

Links behave as they previously did, with one exception—the `text-decoration-color` is now set to `currentColor`. This change was made under the assumption that all link underlines will have the same color as its text, regardless of that text's state.

## Lists

The `<ol>` and `<ul>` elements have been styled to match their [`.ds-c-list`](/foundation/typography/list/) counterpart, with one key difference - they use `flex` to better control list item spacing and assist with commonly used inline list patterns.

If you find yourself in need of an inline list, you can add `flex-direction: row` locally to your project. Likewise, if the spacing between list elements isn't to your liking, `gap` can be changed to the value that fits your project best.

One last change worth mentioning for lists is that unstyled lists are defined under the `role="list"` attribute. This makes something like `<ul role="list">` visually the same as applying the `.ds-c-list--bare` class. Because unstyled lists have [accessibility concerns](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/list-style-type#accessibility_concerns), we opted to include this style rule to ensure proper markup is used.

## Form elements

Various form elements have been rebooted for simpler base styles. Here are some of the most notable changes:

- The `<input>`, `<button>`, `<textarea>`, and `<select>` elements receive the font styles defined by their parent element using the `font: inherit` rule. 
- All `:disabled` fields have `cursor: not-allowed` to prevent user confusion.
- Checkboxes and radio buttons use `accent-color` (set to a theme's defined "checked" color). This makes sure the `:checked` state of these inputs matches the theme of your site, even if you aren't using our [Choice component](/components/checkbox/).
- `<fieldset>` has no `border`, `margin`, or `padding` so they can be easily used as wrappers for individual inputs or groups of inputs.

Commit message:

Update documentation page for the CSS reset according to feedback from beta testers

packages/docs/content/migration-guides/introducing-a-css-reset.mdx, after:

---
title: Introducing a CSS reset
order: 10
---

import marginCollapse from '../../src/images/margin-collapse.png'

The design system's CSS reset is a collection of HTML element-specific styles that simplifies the development process while providing cross-browser sensible defaults to build from.

Our reset CSS is bundled with the rest of the design system's styles, so to use it all you need to do is [import the design system's CSS](/getting-started/for-developers/#including-the-css) using your preferred method. Even if you haven't imported one of our components, your application should visually align with the design system.

If you're curious to see what changes have been made, you can preview our reset styles in [Storybook](/storybook/?path=/story/reset-overview--overview). We'll break down the major changes for you to review below.

## Global defaults

The CSS reset introduces globally-defined defaults that will impact the entire application once the CSS has been imported. These defaults include (but aren't limited to):

- `box-sizing: border-box` is set on every element — including `*::before` and `*::after`. This ensures that the declared width of element is never exceeded due to padding or border.
  - While this was a common CSS reset that teams were already applying, this may produce unexpected results for some teams. If an element suddenly has different spacing around it, it may need to explicitly be set to `box-sizing: content-box` (browser default) to restore its former behavior.
- The `<html>` element has `scroll-behavior: smooth` set on `:focus-within`. This is a CSS-only solution that provides smooth anchor scrolling.
- The `<body>` element effectively replaces the `.ds-base` class, defining `font-family`, `font-size`, `line-height`, and `color`.
  - In addition, `<body>` now sets `background-color` to a theme's specified background.
- The `outline` is removed on elements with the [`tabindex="-1"`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/tabindex) declared. This removes focus rings for non-interactive elements, e.g., when activating a skip link will then send focus to a `<main>` or heading element.
- For users who have [`prefers-reduced-motion`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/prefers-reduced-motion) enabled, animations, transitions, and smooth scroll are removed on all elements - including `*::before` and `*::after` to respect their preferences.

## Spacing

To make default spacing between elements less confusing and more consistent, we've limited our margins between components to one direction. Components now have only top or left margins, depending on whether they are [block or inline](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_flow_layout/Block_and_inline_layout_in_normal_flow) elements. This avoids an historically troublesome concept in CSS known as [_margin collapse_](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Box_Model/Mastering_margin_collapsing) (more info on this in the next section). This change means specifically that the following components have had their bottom margins removed:

- Choice (check/radio)
- Choice list
- Choice checked children
- Date fields
  - Multi-input
  - Single-input
- Dropdown
- Month picker
- Text field
- Review

### Why is "margin collapse" a problem?

While [margin collapse](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Box_Model/Mastering_margin_collapsing) is an understandable concept, it is prone to producing unexpected results, especially when translating from designs to code. Consider the following annotated screenshot which shows the default spacing between a sample of components in the previous version:

<div className="ds-u-measure--wide ds-u-text-align--center ds-u-margin-top--2">
  <img src={marginCollapse} alt="Screenshot showing margins between components on a page in the previous version of the design system. Between a month picker and a text field, margins stack, causing there to be a total of 48 pixels betwen them. Between a paragraph of text and a dropdown, margins collapse, causing it to take the higher value of 24 pixels." className="ds-u-display--inline-block ds-u-border--1" />
</div>

The first thing you may notice is the wild inconsistency in spacing between these components. Between the month picker and text field, the bottom margin of the month picker and the top margin of the text field stack on top of each other, creating `48px` of total space. They failed to collapse into each other. In contrast, the margins between the paragraph of text and the dropdown component did collapse, which meant the higher value of `24px` was chosen by the browser as the space between the elements. While not shown in the annotations for lack of space, there is also some bottom margin below the text field that is stacking on the paragraph's top margin rather than collapsing into it! These issues can get more complicated in the context of applications. For this reason, we've followed the [US Web Design System's](https://designsystem.digital.gov/) lead and applied only top margins to our components.

## Typography

### Headings

All heading elements will receive the font styles defined by their parent element using the `font: inherit` rule. 

[`font`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font) is a shorthand property that encompasses several font styles, but the key thing to note is a heading will now inherit the `font-family` and `font-size` of its parent or `<body>` element. This rule ensures the semantics of a heading element are distinct from its appearance. If you need to style a heading, refer to our [headings](/foundation/typography/headings/) or [utility class](/utilities/overview/) documentation.

### Links

Links behave as they previously did, with one exception—the `text-decoration-color` is now set to `currentColor`. This change was made under the assumption that all link underlines will have the same color as its text, regardless of that text's state.

## Lists

The `<ol>` and `<ul>` elements have been styled to match their [`.ds-c-list`](/foundation/typography/list/) counterpart, with one key difference - they use `flex` to better control list item spacing and assist with commonly used inline list patterns.

If you find yourself in need of an inline list, you can add `flex-direction: row` locally to your project. Likewise, if the spacing between list elements isn't to your liking, `gap` can be changed to the value that fits your project best.

One last change worth mentioning for lists is that unstyled lists are defined under the `role="list"` attribute. This makes something like `<ul role="list">` visually the same as applying the `.ds-c-list--bare` class. Because unstyled lists have [accessibility concerns](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/list-style-type#accessibility_concerns), we opted to include this style rule to ensure proper markup is used.

## Form elements

Various form elements have been rebooted for simpler base styles. Here are some of the most notable changes:

- The `<input>`, `<button>`, `<textarea>`, and `<select>` elements receive the font styles defined by their parent element using the `font: inherit` rule. 
- All `:disabled` fields have `cursor: not-allowed` to prevent user confusion.
- Checkboxes and radio buttons use `accent-color` (set to a theme's defined "checked" color). This makes sure the `:checked` state of these inputs matches the theme of your site, even if you aren't using our [Choice component](/components/checkbox/).
- `<fieldset>` has no `border`, `margin`, or `padding` so they can be easily used as wrappers for individual inputs or groups of inputs.
