packages/docs/content/migration-guides/sass-to-css.mdx, before:

---
title: Sass to CSS
order: 60
intro: New features in CSS have allowed us to stop relying on Sass to share design tokens with product teams. We're now only distributing our styles as CSS.
---

## What we changed and why

Prior to [version 6.0.0](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/releases/tag/%40cmsgov%2Fdesign-system%406.0.0), we provided two ways of consuming our design system styles: as [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) and as CSS. We used to recommend that product teams use our [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) files because only then would they gain access to our [design tokens](/foundation/theme-colors/) and [theme variables](/components/alert/#styles). However, these three things lead us to reconsider Sass's future in the design system:

1. Sass has a new compiler, but the upgrade path is messy and difficult to synchronize across teams
2. Having product teams build our Sass source files is exposing them to unnecessary complexity
3. Features we once relied on Sass for, like [CSS Custom Properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/--*), are now available in CSS

We researched and prototyped and eventually [published an RFC](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/discussions/2223) proposing that use Sass internally but only distribute the compiled CSS output. We shared our findings with product teams and heard no objections, so we went forward with the change.

## Updating style imports

## What to do about the focus-style mixin

## What to do with instances of `@extends`

## Referencing our variables in CSS

(/getting-started/for-developers/#css-custom-properties)

## Sass variables are still available

To help teams transition to using CSS custom properties in their own time, we're still providing Sass equivalents of all our variables. The example below shows which files you will need to import from your project Sass.

<ThemeContent neverThemes={['healthcare', 'medicare']}>

```css
@import '@cmsgov/design-system/dist/scss/core-tokens';
@import '@cmsgov/design-system/dist/scss/core-component-tokens';
```

</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>

```css
@import '@cmsgov/ds-healthcare-gov/dist/scss/healthcare-tokens';
@import '@cmsgov/ds-healthcare-gov/dist/scss/healthcare-component-tokens';
```

</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['medicare']}>

```css
@import '@cmsgov/ds-medicare-gov/dist/scss/medicare-tokens';
@import '@cmsgov/ds-medicare-gov/dist/scss/medicare-component-tokens';
```

</ThemeContent>


------

TODO
- Focus utility classes
- `ds-content` class
- Sass variables backwards compatibility

The messy upgrade path for the Sass compiler and the general complexity around having product teams build our Sass source files lead us to reconsider Sass's future in the design system. We researched and prototyped and eventually [published an RFC](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/discussions/2223) proposing that use Sass internally but only distribute the compiled CSS output.

Commit message:

Working on the first section more

packages/docs/content/migration-guides/sass-to-css.mdx, after:

---
title: Sass to CSS
order: 60
intro: New features in CSS have allowed us to stop relying on Sass to share design tokens with product teams. We're now only distributing our styles as CSS.
---

## What we changed and why

Prior to [version 6.0.0](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/releases/tag/%40cmsgov%2Fdesign-system%406.0.0), we provided two ways of consuming our design system styles: as [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) and as CSS. We used to recommend that product teams use our [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) files because only then would they gain access to our [design tokens](/foundation/theme-colors/) and [theme variables](/components/alert/#styles). However, these three things lead us to reconsider Sass's future in the design system:

1. Sass has a new compiler, but the upgrade path is messy and difficult to synchronize across teams
2. Having product teams build our Sass source files is exposing them to unnecessary complexity
3. Features we once relied on Sass for, like [CSS Custom Properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/--*), are now available in CSS

We researched and prototyped and eventually [published an RFC](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/discussions/2223) proposing that use Sass internally but only distribute the compiled CSS output. We shared our findings with product teams and heard no objections, so we went forward with the change.

## Updating style imports

If you're consuming the design system styles as Sass, you likely have something like this in your project:

```css
/* Old way of importing design-system styles */
$font-path: '~@cmsgov/design-system/dist/fonts';
$image-path: '~@cmsgov/design-system/dist/images';
@import '@cmsgov/design-system/dist/scss/index';

/* Your styles here */
```

Due to [limitations with some build systems](/getting-started/for-developers/#with-an-asset-bundler) and the Sass compiler, these `$font-path` and `$image-path` variables were necessary to make sure the bundler knew where to get fonts and images. In the move to CSS, we've made these paths static. It assumes these files exist at a location relative to your CSS bundle.

For best results, we recommend importing our CSS files in the most direct way possible given your particular build system. That could be importing them from within a JavaScript module, creating a `<link>` tag in your HTML, or importing with a `.css` extension in Sass. The [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) configuration that comes with the latest version of [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app) will be able to find and copy the font files files automatically when our CSS is imported (as can be seen in [our create-react-app-typescript example](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/tree/main/examples/create-react-app-typescript)). See also the [_Including the CSS_](https://design.cms.gov/getting-started/for-developers/#including-the-css) section of our developer docs for more details.

Note that if you need your project Sass to evaluate the CSS files as Sass so you can do Sassy things, you'll have to [leave out the `.css` extension](https://sass-lang.com/documentation/at-rules/import#plain-css-imports). However, we have provided alternatives to several things that you might have needed Sass for previously, so be sure to read the sections below.

## What to do about the focus-style mixin

## What to do with instances of `@extends`

## Referencing our variables in CSS

(/getting-started/for-developers/#css-custom-properties)

## Sass variables are still available

To help teams transition to using CSS custom properties in their own time, we're still providing Sass equivalents of all our variables. The example below shows which files you will need to import from your project Sass.

<ThemeContent neverThemes={['healthcare', 'medicare']}>

```css
@import '@cmsgov/design-system/dist/scss/core-tokens';
@import '@cmsgov/design-system/dist/scss/core-component-tokens';
```

</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>

```css
@import '@cmsgov/ds-healthcare-gov/dist/scss/healthcare-tokens';
@import '@cmsgov/ds-healthcare-gov/dist/scss/healthcare-component-tokens';
```

</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['medicare']}>

```css
@import '@cmsgov/ds-medicare-gov/dist/scss/medicare-tokens';
@import '@cmsgov/ds-medicare-gov/dist/scss/medicare-component-tokens';
```

</ThemeContent>
