packages/docs/content/getting-started/for-developers.mdx, before:

---
title: For Developers
order: 10
---

Greetings, Developers! This page should have everything you need to get started with the design system, but if you run into trouble, [please reach out](/contact). If you have specific suggestions for how we can improve these docs, please feel free to edit this page (with the link under the table of contents) and submit a pull request!

As you go through this documentation, keep in mind that CMS Design System is a [family of design systems](/getting-started/child-design-systems/), and each of these design systems is distributed under a different package name:

- [**design-system**](?theme=core) - Core Design System
- [**ds-healthcare-gov**](?theme=healthcare) - Healthcare.gov Child Design System
- [**ds-medicare-gov**](?theme=medicare) - Medicare.gov Child Design System

## Getting the design system assets

How you get the design system assets depends on the needs of your project and your workstyle. You could...

1. [Install the npm package](#option-1-install-using-npm)
    - Good option if your project already uses [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) for package management
    - Makes it easy to get patch updates for your major/minor version
2. [Reference files directly from the CDN](#option-2-reference-assets-from-the-cdn)
    - Good option if your project doesn't use [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)
    - CDN files are versioned, so you always know what version you're using, and those files will be cached by the client's browser
3. [Download the design system assets directly from GitHub](#option-3-download-assets-directly)
    - This is not recommended, but it's available if no other options will work for your project

### Option 1: Install using npm

If you already have [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) or [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) set up for your project, you can add it to your list of dependencies using one of the commands below. **Note that the following example will display a different package name depending on the theme you have selected.**

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['core']}>

```sh
npm install --save @cmsgov/design-system
# or
yarn add @cmsgov/design-system
```

</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>

```sh
npm install --save @cmsgov/ds-healthcare-gov
# or
yarn add @cmsgov/ds-healthcare-gov
```

</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['medicare']}>

```sh
npm install --save @cmsgov/ds-medicare-gov
# or
yarn add @cmsgov/ds-medicare-gov
```

</ThemeContent>

#### Package file structure

The npm package includes:

- Pre-compiled SCSS files
- Compiled CSS files
- Compiled React components (CommonJS and ES modules)
- Typescript definition files
- Fonts and images

The `dist` folder contains all the necessary files in the design system, your project should not be importing anything from `src`.

```
└── dist
    ├── components/
    │   └── index.js        Compiled JS entry point (CommmonJS)
    ├── css/
    │   └── index.css       Compiled CSS entry point
    ├── esnext/
    │   └── index.esm.js    Compiled JS entry point (ES Module)
    ├── fonts/
    ├── images/
    ├── scss/
    │   ├── base/           Base styles, HTML element selectors
    │   ├── components/     Component styles
    │   ├── settings/       Variables, mixins, and functions
    │   ├── utilities/      Utility classes for individual CSS properties
    │   └── index.scss      Precompiled SCSS entry point
    └── types/              Typescript definition files
```

### Option 2: Reference assets from the CDN

A content delivery network (CDN) is a collection of servers that dynamically allocate resources dependent on the requester's geographic location in order to optimize the distribution of assets.

Some benefits and applications for utilizing the design system via CDN are:

- Quickly utilize design system code and style assets for development/prototyping
- The CDN caches assets for fast loading and scales automatically in case of a large number of requests
- Ability to utilize a specific version of the design system easily

#### Packages

Packages which are currently available for reference:

- **design-system** - The core CMSDS (versions 3.4.0 and above)
- **ds-healthcare-gov** - Healthcare.gov themed DS (versions 7.4.0 and above)
- **ds-medicare-gov** - Medicare.gov themed DS (versions 5.4.0 and above)

#### URL structure

```
https://design.cms.gov/cdn/<package-name>/<version>/<resource>
```

Where `package-name` is one of the packages named above, `version` is the version number and `resource` is the file being requested from the resources listed above.

#### Resources

```
  ├── css/
  │   ├── index.css
  │   ├── base/index.css
  │   ├── components/index.css
  │   └── utilities/index.css
  └── js/
      ├── react.production.min.js
      ├── react-dom.production.min.js
      └── bundle.js
```

#### Example for including version 3.4.0 Core CSS via CDN

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://design.cms.gov/cdn/design-system/3.4.0/css/index.css" crossorigin="anonymous" />
```

#### Example for including version 3.4.0 Core JS via CDN

If you do not already have React and React-DOM included in your page, include them before the design system js bundle.

```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://design.cms.gov/cdn/design-system/3.4.0/js/react.production.min.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://design.cms.gov/cdn/design-system/3.4.0/js/react-dom.production.min.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://design.cms.gov/cdn/design-system/3.4.0/js/bundle.js"></script>
```

### Option 3: Download assets directly

If you'd like to take a look at the static assets that we publish through npm and our CDN, you can download a tar file for any of the releases [on our GitHub Releases page](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/releases). You will find these files in the "Assets" section at the bottom of each release.


## Including the CSS

No matter what framework you use to build your application, you will need to include the design system styles in order for your application to look the way it should. The simplest way to do that is to include a resource link element in your HTML document, like this:

### With HTML

```html
<head>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://design.cms.gov/cdn/design-system/5.0.0/css/index.css" />
</head>
```

If you are getting the files from npm, you will want to change the `href` to reference the files from your local `node_modules` folder. Likewise if you've downloaded the files directly, the `href` will point to wherever you've put your files.

### With an asset bundler
For projects that use an asset bundler, include the assets in whatever way your bundler recommends. For instance, in a WebPack or create-react-app project, you might include the styles in your CSS like this:

```css
@import '@cmsgov/design-system/dist/css/index';
```

Or you might import it from your JavaScript like this:

```css
import '@cmsgov/design-system/dist/css/index.css';
```

Commit message:

Fonts + images notes and reference to example projects

packages/docs/content/getting-started/for-developers.mdx, after:

---
title: For Developers
order: 10
---

Greetings, Developers! This page will walk you through all the basics of using the design system, but you might want to take a look at [our example projects on GitHub](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/tree/main/examples/) as well.

As you go through this documentation, keep in mind that CMS Design System is a [family of design systems](/getting-started/child-design-systems/), and each of these design systems is distributed under a different package name:

- [**design-system**](?theme=core) - Core Design System
- [**ds-healthcare-gov**](?theme=healthcare) - Healthcare.gov Child Design System
- [**ds-medicare-gov**](?theme=medicare) - Medicare.gov Child Design System

We hope this page provides you with everything you need to get started with the design system, but if you run into trouble, [please reach out](/contact). If you have specific suggestions for how we can improve these docs, please feel free to edit this page (with the link under the table of contents) and submit a pull request!

## Getting the design system assets

How you get the design system assets depends on the needs of your project and your workstyle. You could...

1. [Install the npm package](#option-1-install-using-npm)
    - Good option if your project already uses [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) for package management
    - Makes it easy to get patch updates for your major/minor version
2. [Reference files directly from the CDN](#option-2-reference-assets-from-the-cdn)
    - Good option if your project doesn't use [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)
    - CDN files are versioned, so you always know what version you're using, and those files will be cached by the client's browser
3. [Download the design system assets directly from GitHub](#option-3-download-assets-directly)
    - This is not recommended, but it's available if no other options will work for your project

### Option 1: Install using npm

If you already have [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) or [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) set up for your project, you can add it to your list of dependencies using one of the commands below. **Note that the following example will display a different package name depending on the theme you have selected.**

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['core']}>

```sh
npm install --save @cmsgov/design-system
# or
yarn add @cmsgov/design-system
```

</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>

```sh
npm install --save @cmsgov/ds-healthcare-gov
# or
yarn add @cmsgov/ds-healthcare-gov
```

</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['medicare']}>

```sh
npm install --save @cmsgov/ds-medicare-gov
# or
yarn add @cmsgov/ds-medicare-gov
```

</ThemeContent>

#### Package file structure

The npm package includes:

- Pre-compiled SCSS files
- Compiled CSS files
- Compiled React components (CommonJS and ES modules)
- Typescript definition files
- Fonts and images

The `dist` folder contains all the necessary files in the design system, your project should not be importing anything from `src`.

```
└── dist
    ├── components/
    │   └── index.js        Compiled JS entry point (CommmonJS)
    ├── css/
    │   └── index.css       Compiled CSS entry point
    ├── esnext/
    │   └── index.esm.js    Compiled JS entry point (ES Module)
    ├── fonts/
    ├── images/
    ├── scss/
    │   ├── base/           Base styles, HTML element selectors
    │   ├── components/     Component styles
    │   ├── settings/       Variables, mixins, and functions
    │   ├── utilities/      Utility classes for individual CSS properties
    │   └── index.scss      Precompiled SCSS entry point
    └── types/              Typescript definition files
```

### Option 2: Reference assets from the CDN

A content delivery network (CDN) is a collection of servers that dynamically allocate resources dependent on the requester's geographic location in order to optimize the distribution of assets.

Some benefits and applications for utilizing the design system via CDN are:

- Quickly utilize design system code and style assets for development/prototyping
- The CDN caches assets for fast loading and scales automatically in case of a large number of requests
- Ability to utilize a specific version of the design system easily

#### Packages

Packages which are currently available for reference:

- **design-system** - The core CMSDS (versions 3.4.0 and above)
- **ds-healthcare-gov** - Healthcare.gov themed DS (versions 7.4.0 and above)
- **ds-medicare-gov** - Medicare.gov themed DS (versions 5.4.0 and above)

#### URL structure

```
https://design.cms.gov/cdn/<package-name>/<version>/<resource>
```

Where `package-name` is one of the packages named above, `version` is the version number and `resource` is the file being requested from the resources listed above.

#### Resources

```
  ├── css/
  │   ├── index.css
  │   ├── base/index.css
  │   ├── components/index.css
  │   └── utilities/index.css
  └── js/
      ├── react.production.min.js
      ├── react-dom.production.min.js
      └── bundle.js
```

#### Example for including version 3.4.0 Core CSS via CDN

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://design.cms.gov/cdn/design-system/3.4.0/css/index.css" crossorigin="anonymous" />
```

#### Example for including version 3.4.0 Core JS via CDN

If you do not already have React and React-DOM included in your page, include them before the design system js bundle.

```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://design.cms.gov/cdn/design-system/3.4.0/js/react.production.min.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://design.cms.gov/cdn/design-system/3.4.0/js/react-dom.production.min.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://design.cms.gov/cdn/design-system/3.4.0/js/bundle.js"></script>
```

### Option 3: Download assets directly

If you'd like to take a look at the static assets that we publish through npm and our CDN, you can download a tar file for any of the releases [on our GitHub Releases page](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/releases). You will find these files in the "Assets" section at the bottom of each release.


## Including the CSS

No matter what framework you use to build your application, you will need to include the design system styles in order for your application to look the way it should.

### With HTML

The simplest way to do that is to include a resource link element in your HTML document, like this:

```html
<head>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://design.cms.gov/cdn/design-system/5.0.0/css/index.css" />
</head>
```

If you are getting the files from npm, you will want to change the `href` to reference the files from your local `node_modules` folder. Likewise if you've downloaded the files directly, the `href` will point to wherever you've put your files.

### With an asset bundler
For projects that use an asset bundler, include the assets in whatever way your bundler recommends. For instance, in a WebPack or create-react-app project, you might include the styles in your CSS like this:

```css
@import '@cmsgov/design-system/dist/css/index';
```

Or you might import it from your JavaScript like this:

```css
import '@cmsgov/design-system/dist/css/index.css';
```

### Fonts and images

Note that our stylesheets also reference fonts and images, so you will need to make sure these assets (`dist/fonts` and `dist/images`) are available to your site/application at the correct relative paths. You don't need to think about this if you're loading the stylesheet from the CDN, and most asset bundlers will be able to locate these additional assets without additional configuration.
