packages/docs/content/components/date-field/multi-input-date-field.mdx, before:

---
title: Multi-input date field
intro: Date field (multi-input) provides date entry, spaced over three separate inputs for month, day, and year.
core:
  githubLink: design-system/src/components/DateField
  sketchLink: xrmY9oJ
  storybookLink: components-multiinputdatefield--multi-input-date-field-default
healthcare:
  sketchLink: wLOVybw
medicare:
  sketchLink: ka7OOgR
---

## `<MultiInputDateField>`

<StorybookExample
  componentName="multiInputDateField"
  storyId="components-multiinputdatefield--multi-input-date-field-default"
/>

### Props

<PropTable componentName="MultiInputDateField" />

## Guidance

### When to use

Use this date field when:
- User flow requires inputs be separated
- Functionality/back-end systems can't support a single date field entry

Generally used for more memorable dates like date of birth, marriage date, or income start date.

### When to consider alternatives

- Don't use this date field if either [single-input](/components/single-input-date-field/) or [date picker](/components/date-picker/) are feasible. This pattern is least effective with users.

### Usage

- Allow users to enter one-digit numbers with or without the "0" prior to the number. Example: "1" as well as "01" for a month or day.

### Accessibility

- These text fields should follow the [accessibility guidelines for all text inputs](/components/text-field/#guidance).
- Do not use JavaScript to auto advance the focus from one field to the next. This makes it difficult for keyboard-only users to navigate and correct mistakes.

## Customization

The following Sass variables can be overridden to customize Input/Form components:

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="text-input"
/>

### Form components

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="form"
/>

### Related patterns
- [Date field (single-input)](/components/single-input-date-field/)
- [Date field (with calendar)](/components/date-picker/)

Commit message:

[NO-TICKET] Update component pages to match new content structure (#2013)
* Update batch 1 of component pages to match new content structure

* Forgot to make "Learn more" its own top-level section

* Update batch 2 of component pages to match new content structure

* Update batch 3 of component pages to match new content structure

* Update batch 4 of component pages to match new content structure

* Fix mistakes

* Fix filename case

* More fixes

* Trigger tests again because of jenkins change

packages/docs/content/components/date-field/multi-input-date-field.mdx, after:

---
title: Multi-input date field
intro: Date field (multi-input) provides date entry, spaced over three separate inputs for month, day, and year.
core:
  githubLink: design-system/src/components/DateField
  sketchLink: xrmY9oJ
  storybookLink: components-multiinputdatefield--multi-input-date-field-default
healthcare:
  sketchLink: wLOVybw
medicare:
  sketchLink: ka7OOgR
---

## Examples

<StorybookExample
  componentName="multiInputDateField"
  storyId="components-multiinputdatefield--multi-input-date-field-default"
/>

## Code

### React

<PropTable componentName="MultiInputDateField" />

### Styles

The following Sass variables can be overridden to customize Input/Form components:

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="text-input"
/>

#### Form components

This component also makes use of form field styles, which can be customized by the following variables:

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="form"
/>

## Guidance

### When to use

Use this date field when:
- User flow requires inputs be separated
- Functionality/back-end systems can't support a single date field entry

Generally used for more memorable dates like date of birth, marriage date, or income start date.

### When to consider alternatives

- Don't use this date field if either [single-input](/components/single-input-date-field/) or [date picker](/components/date-picker/) are feasible. This pattern is least effective with users.

### Usage

- Allow users to enter one-digit numbers with or without the "0" prior to the number. Example: "1" as well as "01" for a month or day.

### Accessibility

- These text fields should follow the [accessibility guidelines for all text inputs](/components/text-field/#guidance).
- Do not use JavaScript to auto advance the focus from one field to the next. This makes it difficult for keyboard-only users to navigate and correct mistakes.

### Related patterns
- [Date field (single-input)](/components/single-input-date-field/)
- [Date field (with calendar)](/components/date-picker/)
