packages/docs/content/components/date-field/single-input-date-field.mdx, before:

---
title: Single-input date field
intro: Date field (single-input) provides date entry, using a text field, in a single input.
core:
  githubLink: design-system/src/components/DateField
  sketchLink: jgLGlZm
  storybookLink: components-singleinputdatefield--default
healthcare:
  sketchLink: L03Rw5W
medicare:
  sketchLink: l1ymmbO
---
## `<SingleInputDateField>`

<StorybookExample
  componentName="singleInputDateField"
  storyId="components-singleinputdatefield--default"
/>

### Props

<PropTable componentName="SingleInputDateField" />

## Guidance

### When to use

- Use the date input when your user flow does not require separate fields for month, day, and year.
- Use the date input for most dates, particularly memorable dates like date of birth, marriage date, health coverage start or end dates, or income start date.

### When to consider alternatives

- Don't use if users are entering a date within the last year or a future date. Instead, use the [date picker](/components/date-picker/).

### Usage

Allow users to have flexibility in entering the date, such as allowing one-digit numbers with or without "0" prior to the number, or entering a date with or without slashes to separate month, day, and year.
  - Example: "1" as well as "01" for a month or day.
  - Example: "05/01/2022" as well as "05012022".

### Accessibility

- These text fields should follow the [accessibility guidelines for all text inputs](/components/text-field/#guidance).
- Users will be able to enter a variety of date formats that automatically format to the correct date format of MM/DD/YYYY. This change happens once the form field loses focus. For example, a user enters a date as "4122020" and it changes to "04/01/2020" once focus leaves the date input.

## Customization

The following Sass variables can be overridden to customize Input/Form components:

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="text-input"
/>

### Form components

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="form"
/>

### Related components

- [Date field (multi-input)](/components/multi-input-date-field/)
- [Date field (with calendar)](/components/date-picker/)

Commit message:

[NO-TICKET] Update component pages to match new content structure (#2013)
* Update batch 1 of component pages to match new content structure

* Forgot to make "Learn more" its own top-level section

* Update batch 2 of component pages to match new content structure

* Update batch 3 of component pages to match new content structure

* Update batch 4 of component pages to match new content structure

* Fix mistakes

* Fix filename case

* More fixes

* Trigger tests again because of jenkins change

packages/docs/content/components/date-field/single-input-date-field.mdx, after:

---
title: Single-input date field
intro: Date field (single-input) provides date entry, using a text field, in a single input.
core:
  githubLink: design-system/src/components/DateField
  sketchLink: jgLGlZm
  storybookLink: components-singleinputdatefield--default
healthcare:
  sketchLink: L03Rw5W
medicare:
  sketchLink: l1ymmbO
---

## Examples

<StorybookExample
  componentName="singleInputDateField"
  storyId="components-singleinputdatefield--default"
/>

## Code

### React

<PropTable componentName="SingleInputDateField" />

### Styles

The following Sass variables can be overridden to customize Input/Form components:

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="text-input"
/>

#### Form components

This component also makes use of form field styles, which can be customized by the following variables:

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="form"
/>

## Guidance

### When to use

- Use the date input when your user flow does not require separate fields for month, day, and year.
- Use the date input for most dates, particularly memorable dates like date of birth, marriage date, health coverage start or end dates, or income start date.

### When to consider alternatives

- Don't use if users are entering a date within the last year or a future date. Instead, use the [date picker](/components/date-picker/).

### Usage

Allow users to have flexibility in entering the date, such as allowing one-digit numbers with or without "0" prior to the number, or entering a date with or without slashes to separate month, day, and year.
  - Example: "1" as well as "01" for a month or day.
  - Example: "05/01/2022" as well as "05012022".

### Accessibility

- These text fields should follow the [accessibility guidelines for all text inputs](/components/text-field/#guidance).
- Users will be able to enter a variety of date formats that automatically format to the correct date format of MM/DD/YYYY. This change happens once the form field loses focus. For example, a user enters a date as "4122020" and it changes to "04/01/2020" once focus leaves the date input.

### Related components

- [Date field (multi-input)](/components/multi-input-date-field/)
- [Date field (with calendar)](/components/date-picker/)
