packages/docs/content/blog/index.mdx, before:

---
title: What's new
---

## Release 5.0

<time datetime="2022-11-01" className="ds-text-body--sm">November 1, 2022</time>

<lite-youtube videoid="OPIUMpiV0IY"></lite-youtube>

### What's new in 5.0

#### Feedback & discussion page

We have been using Github Discussions to discuss topics pertaining to the Design System and have added links to promote more conversation and ways to communicate within pages of the Design System. Your feedback and input helps pave the way for how the Design System grows and changes. Feel free to create a discussion or [read some of the past topics](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/discussions) in the Github repository.

#### Component maturity checklist

The Design System established a checklist measuring each component's path toward maturity and stability through well-defined and repeatable processes. This maturity model reviews a component's accessibility, code, Sketch assets, and use of design tokens as a series checklist items that have a complete, incomplete, or not-applicable status. Having this checklist helps us track our progress on components internally as a design system team and helps application teams make their own informed decisions about when to use certain components, when to wait, or when to contribute.

#### Single-column layout

We have implemented a single-column layout that teams can use to align their page layouts in both design and code. The single page layout has a space for a header, content, and a footer. You can find templates in both [code](https://design.cms.gov/layouts/Healthcare/one-col-page-layout?theme=healthcare) and design. This is currently only implemented for Healthcare but are looking into offering this layout for other themes.

#### New dialog

The Modal Dialog and Drawer components are now using the new [HTML `<dialog>` element](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/dialog). There are no visual changes associated with this change, but it's a major tune-up under the hood. Before the advent of a specific `<dialog>` element in HTML, web developers had to create the modal dialog experience themselves by dressing up non-semantic elements with custom CSS and JavaScript. This update will improve accessibility and remove third-party dependencies that we used to have to rely on. You can read more about the [research behind the change in github discussions](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/discussions/1831).

#### Upgraded to React 17

We have finished upgrading to React 17 to be more aligned with the teams using the Design System. We are now wondering if we should update to React 18. Do you have thoughts? [Visit the discussion board to join the conversation.](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/discussions/2058)

#### Quality-assurance improvements

In this program increment, we made a few big changes to our automated testing tools. First, we migrated our automated accessibility tests (axe-core) away from testing our legacy doc-site examples to testing our much larger suite of Storybook stories. Second, we added those a11y tests to our continuous-integration job. That helps us validate all our code changes for accessibility as we make them. Third, we finished converting our all our unit tests to use [react-testing-library](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/intro/). While the goal of this was to make them compatible with React 17, the process also resulted in higher-quality tests. Fourth, we rebuilt our visual-regression-testing suite to be able to test all three themes of our design system on multiple browsers at multiple screen sizes. Mamma mia, those are some thorough checks! All these things help us be more confident that we're providing you with quality components.

### What's coming next

#### Links

We will be doing research around external link patterns, backlinks, and text link patterns.


## Previous releases

### [4.0.5](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/releases/tag/%40cmsgov%2Fdesign-system%404.0.5)

October 4, 2022

### [4.0.4](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/releases/tag/%40cmsgov%2Fdesign-system%404.0.4)

September 22, 2022

### [4.0.3](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/releases/tag/%40cmsgov%2Fdesign-system%404.0.3)

September 15, 2022

Commit message:

Add some more of the newsletter content

packages/docs/content/blog/index.mdx, after:

---
title: What's new
---

## Release 5.0

<time datetime="2022-11-01" className="ds-text-body--sm">November 1, 2022</time>

<lite-youtube videoid="OPIUMpiV0IY"></lite-youtube>

### What's new in 5.0

#### Feedback & discussion page

We have been using Github Discussions to discuss topics pertaining to the Design System and have added links to promote more conversation and ways to communicate within pages of the Design System. Your feedback and input helps pave the way for how the Design System grows and changes. Feel free to create a discussion or [read some of the past topics](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/discussions) in the Github repository.

#### Component maturity checklist

The Design System established a checklist measuring each component's path toward maturity and stability through well-defined and repeatable processes. This maturity model reviews a component's accessibility, code, Sketch assets, and use of design tokens as a series checklist items that have a complete, incomplete, or not-applicable status. Having this checklist helps us track our progress on components internally as a design system team and helps application teams make their own informed decisions about when to use certain components, when to wait, or when to contribute.

#### Single-column layout

We have implemented a single-column layout that teams can use to align their page layouts in both design and code. The single page layout has a space for a header, content, and a footer. You can find templates in both [code](https://design.cms.gov/layouts/Healthcare/one-col-page-layout?theme=healthcare) and design. This is currently only implemented for Healthcare but are looking into offering this layout for other themes.

#### New dialog

The Modal Dialog and Drawer components are now using the new [HTML `<dialog>` element](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/dialog). There are no visual changes associated with this change, but it's a major tune-up under the hood. Before the advent of a specific `<dialog>` element in HTML, web developers had to create the modal dialog experience themselves by dressing up non-semantic elements with custom CSS and JavaScript. This update will improve accessibility and remove third-party dependencies that we used to have to rely on. You can read more about the [research behind the change in github discussions](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/discussions/1831).

#### Upgraded to React 17

We have finished upgrading to React 17 to be more aligned with the teams using the Design System. We are now wondering if we should update to React 18. Do you have thoughts? [Visit the discussion board to join the conversation.](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/discussions/2058)

#### Quality-assurance improvements

In this program increment, we made a few big changes to our automated testing tools. First, we migrated our automated accessibility tests (axe-core) away from testing our legacy doc-site examples to testing our much larger suite of Storybook stories. Second, we added those a11y tests to our continuous-integration job. That helps us validate all our code changes for accessibility as we make them. Third, we finished converting our all our unit tests to use [react-testing-library](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/intro/). While the goal of this was to make them compatible with React 17, the process also resulted in higher-quality tests. Fourth, we rebuilt our visual-regression-testing suite to be able to test all three themes of our design system on multiple browsers at multiple screen sizes. Mamma mia, those are some thorough checks! All these things help us be more confident that we're providing you with quality components.

### What's coming next

#### Links

We will be doing research around external link patterns, backlinks, and text link patterns.

### Page patterns

We will be exploring form patterns around zip code input and the different error states that can occur.

### Sass/CSS changes

We've experienced some pain points with having teams consume our CSS as Sass, so this PI we explored alternative options for distributing our CSS. Sass has been the recommended method of importing Sass from the beginning of the design system, but we've run into serious obstacles with upgrading to newer versions of Sass. In order to simplify how our styles are consumed, make it easier to override styles in applications when necessary, and better support those who do not use the Sass pre-processor, we've decided to stop distributing our CSS as SCSS files. We will instead only distribute CSS files and will export all our design tokens as CSS variables. Have thoughts? Join the discussion on GitHub (LINK TO A GITHUB DISCUSSION)

## Previous releases

### [4.0.5](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/releases/tag/%40cmsgov%2Fdesign-system%404.0.5)

October 4, 2022

### [4.0.4](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/releases/tag/%40cmsgov%2Fdesign-system%404.0.4)

September 22, 2022

### [4.0.3](https://github.com/CMSgov/design-system/releases/tag/%40cmsgov%2Fdesign-system%404.0.3)

September 15, 2022
