packages/docs/content/components/accordion.mdx, before:

---
title: Accordion
status: draft
intro: An accordion is a list of headers that hide or reveal additional content when selected.
core:
  githubLink: design-system/src/components/Accordion
  sketchLink: ygDKPRA
  storybookLink: components-accordion--default
healthcare:
  githubLink: ds-healthcare-gov/src/components/Accordion
  sketchLink: zxJDbdo
  storybookLink: healthcare-accordion--default
medicare:
  sketchLink: R1zwwm2
---


## `<Accordion>`

<ThemeContent neverThemes={['healthcare']}>
  <StorybookExample
    componentName="accordion"
    storyId="components-accordion--default"
  />
</ThemeContent>
<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>
  <StorybookExample
    componentName="accordion"
    storyId="healthcare-accordion--default"
  />
</ThemeContent>

### Props

<PropTable componentName="Accordion" />

## `<AccordionItem>`

`AccordionItem` renders the Accordion element.

### Accordion Item Props

<PropTable componentName="AccordionItem" />

## Guidance

### When to use

- Use an accordion to see an overview of multiple, related sections of content
- Use an accordion to show and hide sections as needed

### When to consider alternatives

Accordions hide content from users and not everyone will notice them or understand how they work.
Accordions increase cognitive load and interaction cost, as users have to make decisions about what headers to click on.

- Don't use an accordion if users need to see most or all of the information on a page.
- Don't use an accordion if there is not enough content to warrant condensing.

### Usage

- Make the entire header selectable. Allow users to click anywhere in the header area to expand or collapse the content; a larger target is easier to manipulate.
- Give interactive elements enough space. Make sure interactive elements within the collapsible region are far enough from the headers that users don’t accidentally trigger a collapse.

### Accessibility

Keyboard support for the Accordion header includes:

- `Enter` or `Spacebar` - Changes the collapsed/expanded state of the associated accordion panel
- `Arrow Down` - Moves focus to the next accordion header
- `Arrow Up` - Moves focus to the previous accordion header

## Customization

The following Sass variables can be overridden to customize Accordion components:

<ComponentThemeOptions componentname="accordion" />

Commit message:

Update batch 1 of component pages to match new content structure

packages/docs/content/components/accordion.mdx, after:

---
title: Accordion
status: draft
intro: An accordion is a list of headers that hide or reveal additional content when selected.
core:
  githubLink: design-system/src/components/Accordion
  sketchLink: ygDKPRA
  storybookLink: components-accordion--default
healthcare:
  githubLink: ds-healthcare-gov/src/components/Accordion
  sketchLink: zxJDbdo
  storybookLink: healthcare-accordion--default
medicare:
  sketchLink: R1zwwm2
---


## Examples

<ThemeContent neverThemes={['healthcare']}>
  <StorybookExample
    componentName="accordion"
    storyId="components-accordion--default"
  />
</ThemeContent>
<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>
  <StorybookExample
    componentName="accordion"
    storyId="healthcare-accordion--default"
  />
</ThemeContent>

## Code

### React

An accordion is made up of one `<Accordion>` component wrapping one or more `<AccordionItem>` components. See the sections below for information on each.

#### `<Accordion>` component

<PropTable componentName="Accordion" />

#### `<AccordionItem>` component

<PropTable componentName="AccordionItem" />

### Styles

The following Sass variables can be overridden to customize Accordion components:

<ComponentThemeOptions componentname="accordion" />

## Guidance

### When to use

- Use an accordion to see an overview of multiple, related sections of content
- Use an accordion to show and hide sections as needed

### When to consider alternatives

Accordions hide content from users and not everyone will notice them or understand how they work.
Accordions increase cognitive load and interaction cost, as users have to make decisions about what headers to click on.

- Don't use an accordion if users need to see most or all of the information on a page.
- Don't use an accordion if there is not enough content to warrant condensing.

### Usage

- Make the entire header selectable. Allow users to click anywhere in the header area to expand or collapse the content; a larger target is easier to manipulate.
- Give interactive elements enough space. Make sure interactive elements within the collapsible region are far enough from the headers that users don’t accidentally trigger a collapse.

### Accessibility

Keyboard support for the Accordion header includes:

- `Enter` or `Spacebar` - Changes the collapsed/expanded state of the associated accordion panel
- `Arrow Down` - Moves focus to the next accordion header
- `Arrow Up` - Moves focus to the previous accordion header
