packages/docs/content/components/alert.mdx, before:

---
title: Alert
intro: Alerts give feedback to users, provide critical information, and/or offer key supplementary details about a task.
core:
  githubLink: design-system/src/components/Alert
  sketchLink: 9P3rvwn
  storybookLink: components-alert--default
healthcare:
  sketchLink: nRKbw3z
medicare:
  sketchLink: 1K9gg0y
---

import { Badge } from '@cmsgov/design-system';

## Examples

### Informational (Default)

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>

Provides supplementary information, or highlights a tool or step available to the user, that may be helpful to users regarding their current action or task, but is optional or not critical. Can provide guidance on what the user needs to do to proceed. Provides additional information, such as definitions, explanations, or criteria, that the user may find helpful as they answer questions with unfamiliar terminology or policy considerations.

</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['medicare']}>

Does not require an icon. 

Provides supplementary information, or highlights a tool or step available to the user, that may be helpful to users regarding their current action or task, but is optional or not critical. Can provide guidance on what the user needs to do to proceed.

</ThemeContent>

<StorybookExample
  componentName="alert"
  storyId="components-alert--default"
/>

### Error

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>

Informs users of an error or critical failure. Often used to block them from proceeding until they resolve the issue including system alerts.

</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['medicare']}>

Requires an icon. 

Informs users of an error or critical failure. Often used to block them from proceeding until they resolve the issue including system alerts.

</ThemeContent>

<StorybookExample
  componentName="error alert"
  storyId="components-alert--error-alert"
/>

### Warning

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>

Informs users that their entry or selection may have unexpected or undesirable results, some of which may not be easily undone. Highlights information a user should be aware of in order to help them avoid taking an action that is likely to result in a negative outcome or understand when content/data is missing from the page.

</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['medicare']}>

Requires an icon. 

Informs users that their entry or selection may have unexpected or undesirable results, some of which may not be easily undone.

</ThemeContent>

<StorybookExample
  componentName="warning alert"
  storyId="components-alert--warning-alert"
/>

### Success

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>

Confirms the successful completion of a step or task, or receipt of information provided by the user. Suggests a path forward that may be beneficial to the user, based on their selections or entries. 

</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['medicare']}>

Does not require an icon. 

Confirms the successful completion of a step or task, or receipt of information provided by the user.

</ThemeContent>

<StorybookExample
  componentName="success alert"
  storyId="components-alert--success-alert"
/>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['medicare']}>

### Note

Not in the design system yet.

Does not require an icon. 

Explains concepts which may include math or maybe not.

</ThemeContent>

### Lightweight

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['medicare']}>

<Badge variation="alert">
<CloseIconThin /> Unused by Medicare.
</Badge>

</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>

Used to show important but not as urgent messages as standard alerts.

</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent neverThemes={['medicare']}>

<StorybookExample
  componentName="lightweight alert"
  storyId="components-alert--light-weight"
/>

</ThemeContent>

## Code

### React

<PropTable componentName="Alert" hasAnalytics>
  <PropTableHtmlElementRow elements={['div']} />
</PropTable>

### Styles

The following CSS variables can be overridden to customize Alert components:

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="alert"
/>

### Google Analytics

**Analytics event tracking is disabled by default.**

#### Enable event tracking

Import and set the `setAlertSendsAnalytics` feature flag to `true` in your application's entry file:

```js
import { setAlertSendsAnalytics } from '@cmsgov/<design-system-package>';
setAlertSendsAnalytics(true);
```

On applications where the page has `utag` loaded, the data goes to Tealium which allows it to route to Google Analytics or the currently approved data analytics tools.

#### Disable event tracking

For the `analytics` prop, pass the value `false` to the component to disable analytics tracking for a singular component instance

```js
analytics={false}
```

#### Override event tracking

A custom heading value can be sent for an analytics event by using the prop `analyticsLabelOverride`. It is recommended that this value be used to prevent sensitive personal information from being passed to analytics trackers.

## Guidance

### Usage

- Don’t overdo it — too many notifications will either overwhelm or annoy the user and are likely to be ignored.
- Write the message in concise, human readable language; avoid jargon and computer code.
- Don’t include notifications that aren’t related to the user’s current goal.
- When the user is required to do something in response to an alert, let them know what they need to do and make that task as easy as possible.
- Be mindful of other elements on the page that may compete for the user’s attention.

### When to use

- As a validation message that alerts someone that they just did something that needs to be corrected or as confirmation that a task was completed successfully.
- As a callout or notification for important or timely information. This includes errors, warnings, and general information.
- Drawing focus to an error or an incomplete task by prompting the user to review or take other action.
- Confirming the successful competition of a task.
- Providing key supplementary or contextual information to support the successful completion of tasks or aid overall comprehension.

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['medicare']}>

### Don't use

- You need to display alerts that aren’t related to the user’s current goal.

</ThemeContent>


### When to consider alternatives

- On long forms, always include in-line validation in addition to any error messages that appear at the top of the form. When possible, simplify forms by rewriting and where possible, splitting long forms across multiple pages
- If an action will result in destroying a user’s work (for example, deleting an application) use a more intrusive pattern, such as a confirmation modal dialogue, to allow the user to confirm that this is what they want.
- When you need to display content that isn't related to the user’s current goal.

**When the alert is for an error:**

- Be polite in error messages — don’t place blame on the user.
- Users generally won’t read documentation but will read a message that helps them resolve an error; include some educational material in your error message.
- If the error relates to specific text fields, give these fields an error state as well.

### Display & behavior

- Alerts are static and shouldn't be associated with a timer or dismiss button. 
- Can be displayed statically on page load or dynamically loaded.
- When the user is required to do something in response to an alert, let them know what they need to do and make that task as easy as possible.

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>

- Having icons is the preferred use for alerts. Some alerts might have a large amount of content and may need the extra space and in those cases the icon can be removed. Removing the icon should be considered a exception. Validate the design and spacing on mobile to help make this decision.

### Design guidelines

#### Placement

- Place all alerts below the main page title.
- Default alerts provide more impact and should be used sparingly. Focus on using default alerts as top-level elements.
  - Exception: Warning alerts can be used as needed within the page.
- Lightweight alerts are more targeted and should be focused on specific elements within the context of the page. 

</ThemeContent>

### Accessibility

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>

If dynamically loaded, be mindful of when the alert displays on the page. For example, an alert could appear on a page due to an error or progressive disclosure. Where and how the content appears visually should align with how and when a screen reader user hears the content. Errors need immediate attention, but content through progressive disclosure may not.

- Users who are viewing the content need it to be placed in an effective location and to draw attention even when CSS is turned off. Content can help here too, using word choices that make the importance of the message clear.
- Users who hear this content through assistive technology, such as a screen readers, will need to be alerted at the right time, and that can be managed with code.

</ThemeContent>

  
- Use the ARIA `role="alert"` to inform assistive technologies of a time-sensitive and important message that is not interactive. If the message is interactive, use the `role="alertdialog"` instead.
- Consider putting the alert inside a div with `aria-live="polite"` and `aria-relevant="additions removals"`. These <abbr title="Accessible rich internet applications">ARIA</abbr> attributes ensure screen readers will announce alerts that have been added or updated dynamically.
- If you choose to shift focus to the Alert, be mindful that using other techniques like `role="alert"`, and `aria-live="polite"` will cause some browser and screen reader combinations to read out the content more than once. Typically, shifting focus alone will be enough to alert screen readers of the content.
- Do not visually hide alert messages on the page and then make them visible when they are needed. Users of older assistive technologies may still be able to perceive the alert messages even if they are not currently applicable.

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>

### Content

- Consider the amount of text placed in an alert. Aim for the shortest possible amount of text to convey the concept or issue.
- Write the message in concise, plain language; avoid jargon and computer code.
- Alerts support various types and lengths of content from ~45 to ~80 characters wide, including lists and navigational links.

#### Heading content

- Is bolded and acts as the title of the alert
- Helps to group or frame the information in the alert
- Shouldn't end in a period

#### Error content 

- Describe what went wrong and what the the user needs to do.
- Use the fewest words possible (i.e., don't use "please").
- Body copy should end with a period.
- Include some educational material or guidance on what action the user needs to take because they generally won’t read documentation but will read a message that helps them resolve an error.
- Use active voice. It helps reduce the number of words needed to convey your message.
- Use contractions where applicable (especially negative contractions like won't, don't, can't, shouldn't). People sometimes miss "not" in text so contractions help with clarity.

<table class="ds-c-table ds-c-table--compact ds-c-md-table--stacked" role="table" width="100%">
  <thead role="rowgroup">
    <tr role="row">
      <th class="ds-u-fill--success-lightest" role="columnheader" scope="col">
        Use
      </th>
      <th class="ds-u-fill--error-lightest" role="columnheader" scope="col">
        Don't use
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody role="rowgroup">
    <tr role="row">
      <td
        role="cell"
        data-title="Document title"
        width="50%"
      >
      Use active voice: "Access your application...". Start with an action verb whenever possible.
      </td>
      <td
        role="cell"
        data-title="Description"
        width="50%"
      >
      Use passive voice: "Your application can be accessed by...."
      </td>
    </tr>
      <tr role="row">
      <td
        role="cell"
        data-title="Document title"
        width="50%"
      >
      Contractions 
      </td>
      <td
        role="cell"
        data-title="Description"
        width="50%"
      >
      These specific contractions: "it'll, that’ll, why’s, how’s, you’d"
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

</ThemeContent>

## Learn more

- [18F Content Guide \- Active voice](https://content-guide.18f.gov/active-voice/)

## Component maturity

<MaturityChecklist
  a11yStandards={true}
  color={true}
  forcedColors={true}
  screenReaders={true}
  keyboardNavigable={null}
  storybook={true}
  responsive={true}
  spanish={true}
  completeUiKit={false}
  responsiveUiKit={false}
  tokensInCode={true}
  tokensInSketch={true}
/>

Commit message:

Add analytics documentation to the developer page

packages/docs/content/components/alert.mdx, after:

---
title: Alert
intro: Alerts give feedback to users, provide critical information, and/or offer key supplementary details about a task.
core:
  githubLink: design-system/src/components/Alert
  sketchLink: 9P3rvwn
  storybookLink: components-alert--default
healthcare:
  sketchLink: nRKbw3z
medicare:
  sketchLink: 1K9gg0y
---

import { Badge } from '@cmsgov/design-system';

## Examples

### Informational (Default)

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>

Provides supplementary information, or highlights a tool or step available to the user, that may be helpful to users regarding their current action or task, but is optional or not critical. Can provide guidance on what the user needs to do to proceed. Provides additional information, such as definitions, explanations, or criteria, that the user may find helpful as they answer questions with unfamiliar terminology or policy considerations.

</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['medicare']}>

Does not require an icon. 

Provides supplementary information, or highlights a tool or step available to the user, that may be helpful to users regarding their current action or task, but is optional or not critical. Can provide guidance on what the user needs to do to proceed.

</ThemeContent>

<StorybookExample
  componentName="alert"
  storyId="components-alert--default"
/>

### Error

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>

Informs users of an error or critical failure. Often used to block them from proceeding until they resolve the issue including system alerts.

</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['medicare']}>

Requires an icon. 

Informs users of an error or critical failure. Often used to block them from proceeding until they resolve the issue including system alerts.

</ThemeContent>

<StorybookExample
  componentName="error alert"
  storyId="components-alert--error-alert"
/>

### Warning

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>

Informs users that their entry or selection may have unexpected or undesirable results, some of which may not be easily undone. Highlights information a user should be aware of in order to help them avoid taking an action that is likely to result in a negative outcome or understand when content/data is missing from the page.

</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['medicare']}>

Requires an icon. 

Informs users that their entry or selection may have unexpected or undesirable results, some of which may not be easily undone.

</ThemeContent>

<StorybookExample
  componentName="warning alert"
  storyId="components-alert--warning-alert"
/>

### Success

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>

Confirms the successful completion of a step or task, or receipt of information provided by the user. Suggests a path forward that may be beneficial to the user, based on their selections or entries. 

</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['medicare']}>

Does not require an icon. 

Confirms the successful completion of a step or task, or receipt of information provided by the user.

</ThemeContent>

<StorybookExample
  componentName="success alert"
  storyId="components-alert--success-alert"
/>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['medicare']}>

### Note

Not in the design system yet.

Does not require an icon. 

Explains concepts which may include math or maybe not.

</ThemeContent>

### Lightweight

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['medicare']}>

<Badge variation="alert">
<CloseIconThin /> Unused by Medicare.
</Badge>

</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>

Used to show important but not as urgent messages as standard alerts.

</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent neverThemes={['medicare']}>

<StorybookExample
  componentName="lightweight alert"
  storyId="components-alert--light-weight"
/>

</ThemeContent>

## Code

### React

<PropTable componentName="Alert" hasAnalytics>
  <PropTableHtmlElementRow elements={['div']} />
</PropTable>

### Styles

The following CSS variables can be overridden to customize Alert components:

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="alert"
/>

### Analytics

This component has analytics tracking available. Please see our developer documentation about [using analytics in the design system](/getting-started/for-developers/#analytics).

## Guidance

### Usage

- Don’t overdo it — too many notifications will either overwhelm or annoy the user and are likely to be ignored.
- Write the message in concise, human readable language; avoid jargon and computer code.
- Don’t include notifications that aren’t related to the user’s current goal.
- When the user is required to do something in response to an alert, let them know what they need to do and make that task as easy as possible.
- Be mindful of other elements on the page that may compete for the user’s attention.

### When to use

- As a validation message that alerts someone that they just did something that needs to be corrected or as confirmation that a task was completed successfully.
- As a callout or notification for important or timely information. This includes errors, warnings, and general information.
- Drawing focus to an error or an incomplete task by prompting the user to review or take other action.
- Confirming the successful competition of a task.
- Providing key supplementary or contextual information to support the successful completion of tasks or aid overall comprehension.

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['medicare']}>

### Don't use

- You need to display alerts that aren’t related to the user’s current goal.

</ThemeContent>


### When to consider alternatives

- On long forms, always include in-line validation in addition to any error messages that appear at the top of the form. When possible, simplify forms by rewriting and where possible, splitting long forms across multiple pages
- If an action will result in destroying a user’s work (for example, deleting an application) use a more intrusive pattern, such as a confirmation modal dialogue, to allow the user to confirm that this is what they want.
- When you need to display content that isn't related to the user’s current goal.

**When the alert is for an error:**

- Be polite in error messages — don’t place blame on the user.
- Users generally won’t read documentation but will read a message that helps them resolve an error; include some educational material in your error message.
- If the error relates to specific text fields, give these fields an error state as well.

### Display & behavior

- Alerts are static and shouldn't be associated with a timer or dismiss button. 
- Can be displayed statically on page load or dynamically loaded.
- When the user is required to do something in response to an alert, let them know what they need to do and make that task as easy as possible.

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>

- Having icons is the preferred use for alerts. Some alerts might have a large amount of content and may need the extra space and in those cases the icon can be removed. Removing the icon should be considered a exception. Validate the design and spacing on mobile to help make this decision.

### Design guidelines

#### Placement

- Place all alerts below the main page title.
- Default alerts provide more impact and should be used sparingly. Focus on using default alerts as top-level elements.
  - Exception: Warning alerts can be used as needed within the page.
- Lightweight alerts are more targeted and should be focused on specific elements within the context of the page. 

</ThemeContent>

### Accessibility

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>

If dynamically loaded, be mindful of when the alert displays on the page. For example, an alert could appear on a page due to an error or progressive disclosure. Where and how the content appears visually should align with how and when a screen reader user hears the content. Errors need immediate attention, but content through progressive disclosure may not.

- Users who are viewing the content need it to be placed in an effective location and to draw attention even when CSS is turned off. Content can help here too, using word choices that make the importance of the message clear.
- Users who hear this content through assistive technology, such as a screen readers, will need to be alerted at the right time, and that can be managed with code.

</ThemeContent>

  
- Use the ARIA `role="alert"` to inform assistive technologies of a time-sensitive and important message that is not interactive. If the message is interactive, use the `role="alertdialog"` instead.
- Consider putting the alert inside a div with `aria-live="polite"` and `aria-relevant="additions removals"`. These <abbr title="Accessible rich internet applications">ARIA</abbr> attributes ensure screen readers will announce alerts that have been added or updated dynamically.
- If you choose to shift focus to the Alert, be mindful that using other techniques like `role="alert"`, and `aria-live="polite"` will cause some browser and screen reader combinations to read out the content more than once. Typically, shifting focus alone will be enough to alert screen readers of the content.
- Do not visually hide alert messages on the page and then make them visible when they are needed. Users of older assistive technologies may still be able to perceive the alert messages even if they are not currently applicable.

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>

### Content

- Consider the amount of text placed in an alert. Aim for the shortest possible amount of text to convey the concept or issue.
- Write the message in concise, plain language; avoid jargon and computer code.
- Alerts support various types and lengths of content from ~45 to ~80 characters wide, including lists and navigational links.

#### Heading content

- Is bolded and acts as the title of the alert
- Helps to group or frame the information in the alert
- Shouldn't end in a period

#### Error content 

- Describe what went wrong and what the the user needs to do.
- Use the fewest words possible (i.e., don't use "please").
- Body copy should end with a period.
- Include some educational material or guidance on what action the user needs to take because they generally won’t read documentation but will read a message that helps them resolve an error.
- Use active voice. It helps reduce the number of words needed to convey your message.
- Use contractions where applicable (especially negative contractions like won't, don't, can't, shouldn't). People sometimes miss "not" in text so contractions help with clarity.

<table class="ds-c-table ds-c-table--compact ds-c-md-table--stacked" role="table" width="100%">
  <thead role="rowgroup">
    <tr role="row">
      <th class="ds-u-fill--success-lightest" role="columnheader" scope="col">
        Use
      </th>
      <th class="ds-u-fill--error-lightest" role="columnheader" scope="col">
        Don't use
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody role="rowgroup">
    <tr role="row">
      <td
        role="cell"
        data-title="Document title"
        width="50%"
      >
      Use active voice: "Access your application...". Start with an action verb whenever possible.
      </td>
      <td
        role="cell"
        data-title="Description"
        width="50%"
      >
      Use passive voice: "Your application can be accessed by...."
      </td>
    </tr>
      <tr role="row">
      <td
        role="cell"
        data-title="Document title"
        width="50%"
      >
      Contractions 
      </td>
      <td
        role="cell"
        data-title="Description"
        width="50%"
      >
      These specific contractions: "it'll, that’ll, why’s, how’s, you’d"
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

</ThemeContent>

## Learn more

- [18F Content Guide \- Active voice](https://content-guide.18f.gov/active-voice/)

## Component maturity

<MaturityChecklist
  a11yStandards={true}
  color={true}
  forcedColors={true}
  screenReaders={true}
  keyboardNavigable={null}
  storybook={true}
  responsive={true}
  spanish={true}
  completeUiKit={false}
  responsiveUiKit={false}
  tokensInCode={true}
  tokensInSketch={true}
/>
