packages/docs/content/components/autocomplete.mdx, before:

---
title: Autocomplete
---

Autocompletes allow users to enter any combination of letters, numbers, or symbols of their choosing (unless otherwise restricted), and receive one or more suggested matches in a list below the input.

## `<Autocomplete>`

The `Autocomplete` component is a parent component that adds autocomplete functionality to a `TextField` component.

<StorybookExample
  componentName="autocomplete"
  sourceFilePath="components/Autocomplete/Autocomplete.tsx"
  storyId="components-autocomplete--default"
  minHeight={500}
/>

### Props

<PropTable componentName="Autocomplete" />

### Autocomplete Items

| Name                                                  | Type                         | Description                                                                                                                |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <code class="ds-u-font-weight--bold">id</code>        | <code>string</code>          | Unique identifier for this item                                                                                            |
| <code class="ds-u-font-weight--bold">name</code>      | <code>string</code>          | Displayed value of the item. May alternatively provide a <code>children</code> value                                       |
| <code class="ds-u-font-weight--bold">children</code>  | <code>React.ReactNode</code> | Custom React node as an alternative to a string-only `name`                                                                |
| <code class="ds-u-font-weight--bold">className</code> | <code>string</code>          | Additional classes to be added to the root element. Useful for adding utility classes.                                     |
| <code class="ds-u-font-weight--bold">isResult</code>  | <code>boolean</code>         | Whether this item should be counted as one of the results for the purpose of announcing the result count to screen readers |

## Guidance

### When to use

- If you are returning results from a known domain like a database of zip codes or a taxonomy of keywords
- If you have a list of options that would cause a [dropdown](/components/dropdown/) to be unusually long

### When to consider alternatives

- When users are choosing from a specific set of options. Consider [checkboxes](/components/checkbox), [radio buttons](/components/radio/), or a [dropdown](/components/dropdown/) in these cases.

### Usage

- `<Autocomplete>` makes use of the `<Downshift>` component, maintained by Paypal: [Downshift docs on Github](https://github.com/paypal/downshift). The above documented props are only those directly exposed by the `<Autocomplete>` component, but you can pass props specific to `<Downshift>` here as well, e.g. you can set the [`inputValue`](https://github.com/downshift-js/downshift#inputvalue) prop if you'd like to provide an initial value to the component or control the input more directly.
- We continue to use the [ARIA 1.0 Combobox With List Autocomplete](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.1/examples/combobox/aria1.0pattern/combobox-autocomplete-list.html) pattern. This decision was made ensures good compatibility with assistive devices (JAWS, NVDA, VoiceOver). This was done because the ARIA 1.1 markup pattern triggers a different behavior on containers with a role="combobox" attribute.
- Don't use placeholder text in autocomplete fields. Try to write a descriptive label that identifies what the user is searching for. People who have cognitive or visual disabilities have additional problems with placeholder text.
- The length of the text field provides a hint to users as to how much text to write. Do not ask users to write paragraphs of text in this component; use a `textarea` instead.

**[View the "Forms" guidelines for additional guidance and best practices.](/patterns/forms/)**

### Accessibility

- The `<Autocomplete>` component has taken special care to ensure accessibility for screenreader devices. It announces the number of results based on `items` matches with the `inputValue` string. The component also reads out the name of each list item when users arrow up or down.
- `<Autocomplete>` allows developers to add hint text in the `<label>` element. This hint `<span>` is added to the markup by passing a `String` into the `hint` prop.
- `<Autocomplete>` has a button (styled visually as a link) to clear the search, and refocus the `<input>` element. This resets the local state `selectedItem` to `null`, and will re-read the label and screenreader hint text.

### Focus Management

- `<Autocomplete>` has a new Boolean prop called `focusTrigger`. Adding this prop will set keyboard focus on the internal `<Textfield>`. Focus is set immediately when the `componentDidMount()` lifecycle method fires.
- In most cases, this isn't needed. It's useful when components are added dynamically, after the application has been rendered. All major screen readers (JAWS, NVDA, VoiceOver) have been tested with this feature, and announce the new input correctly.
- Instances that contain the `focusTrigger` prop may fire Downshift's [onInputValueChange](https://github.com/paypal/downshift#oninputvaluechange) method, causing the `inputValue` to be set back to an empty string. In these cases, you may want to access Downshift's [state reducer](https://github.com/paypal/downshift#statereducer) and manage your component's local state for `blur` and `click` events.

## Customization

The following Sass variables can be overridden to customize Autocomplete components:

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="autocomplete"
/>

## Text Input Options

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="text-input"
/>

Commit message:

[WNMGDS-1722] component page header (#1977)
* removing unused files

* removing related uswds frontmatter field

* component page header link items

* theme based links for component pages

* adding intro into page header

* cleanup

* updates

* [WNMGDS-1722] component content update (#1985)

* removing ViewSourceLink

* moving intro text into frontmatter

* adding links wip

* updated component links

* fixing image asset url

* updated component github links to link to source directory

packages/docs/content/components/autocomplete.mdx, after:

---
title: Autocomplete
intro: Autocompletes allow users to enter any combination of letters, numbers, or symbols of their choosing (unless otherwise restricted), and receive one or more suggested matches in a list below the input.
core:
  githubLink: design-system/src/components/Autocomplete
  sketchLink: 7y3WZY8
  storybookLink: components-autocomplete--default
healthcare:
  sketchLink: ZOZk4rx
---

## `<Autocomplete>`

The `Autocomplete` component is a parent component that adds autocomplete functionality to a `TextField` component.

<StorybookExample
  componentName="autocomplete"
  storyId="components-autocomplete--default"
  minHeight={500}
/>

### Props

<PropTable componentName="Autocomplete" />

### Autocomplete Items

| Name                                                  | Type                         | Description                                                                                                                |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <code class="ds-u-font-weight--bold">id</code>        | <code>string</code>          | Unique identifier for this item                                                                                            |
| <code class="ds-u-font-weight--bold">name</code>      | <code>string</code>          | Displayed value of the item. May alternatively provide a <code>children</code> value                                       |
| <code class="ds-u-font-weight--bold">children</code>  | <code>React.ReactNode</code> | Custom React node as an alternative to a string-only `name`                                                                |
| <code class="ds-u-font-weight--bold">className</code> | <code>string</code>          | Additional classes to be added to the root element. Useful for adding utility classes.                                     |
| <code class="ds-u-font-weight--bold">isResult</code>  | <code>boolean</code>         | Whether this item should be counted as one of the results for the purpose of announcing the result count to screen readers |

## Guidance

### When to use

- If you are returning results from a known domain like a database of zip codes or a taxonomy of keywords
- If you have a list of options that would cause a [dropdown](/components/dropdown/) to be unusually long

### When to consider alternatives

- When users are choosing from a specific set of options. Consider [checkboxes](/components/checkbox), [radio buttons](/components/radio/), or a [dropdown](/components/dropdown/) in these cases.

### Usage

- `<Autocomplete>` makes use of the `<Downshift>` component, maintained by Paypal: [Downshift docs on Github](https://github.com/paypal/downshift). The above documented props are only those directly exposed by the `<Autocomplete>` component, but you can pass props specific to `<Downshift>` here as well, e.g. you can set the [`inputValue`](https://github.com/downshift-js/downshift#inputvalue) prop if you'd like to provide an initial value to the component or control the input more directly.
- We continue to use the [ARIA 1.0 Combobox With List Autocomplete](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.1/examples/combobox/aria1.0pattern/combobox-autocomplete-list.html) pattern. This decision was made ensures good compatibility with assistive devices (JAWS, NVDA, VoiceOver). This was done because the ARIA 1.1 markup pattern triggers a different behavior on containers with a role="combobox" attribute.
- Don't use placeholder text in autocomplete fields. Try to write a descriptive label that identifies what the user is searching for. People who have cognitive or visual disabilities have additional problems with placeholder text.
- The length of the text field provides a hint to users as to how much text to write. Do not ask users to write paragraphs of text in this component; use a `textarea` instead.

**[View the "Forms" guidelines for additional guidance and best practices.](/patterns/forms/)**

### Accessibility

- The `<Autocomplete>` component has taken special care to ensure accessibility for screenreader devices. It announces the number of results based on `items` matches with the `inputValue` string. The component also reads out the name of each list item when users arrow up or down.
- `<Autocomplete>` allows developers to add hint text in the `<label>` element. This hint `<span>` is added to the markup by passing a `String` into the `hint` prop.
- `<Autocomplete>` has a button (styled visually as a link) to clear the search, and refocus the `<input>` element. This resets the local state `selectedItem` to `null`, and will re-read the label and screenreader hint text.

### Focus Management

- `<Autocomplete>` has a new Boolean prop called `focusTrigger`. Adding this prop will set keyboard focus on the internal `<Textfield>`. Focus is set immediately when the `componentDidMount()` lifecycle method fires.
- In most cases, this isn't needed. It's useful when components are added dynamically, after the application has been rendered. All major screen readers (JAWS, NVDA, VoiceOver) have been tested with this feature, and announce the new input correctly.
- Instances that contain the `focusTrigger` prop may fire Downshift's [onInputValueChange](https://github.com/paypal/downshift#oninputvaluechange) method, causing the `inputValue` to be set back to an empty string. In these cases, you may want to access Downshift's [state reducer](https://github.com/paypal/downshift#statereducer) and manage your component's local state for `blur` and `click` events.

## Customization

The following Sass variables can be overridden to customize Autocomplete components:

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="autocomplete"
/>

## Text Input Options

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="text-input"
/>
