packages/docs/content/components/button.mdx, before:

---
title: Button
intro: Use buttons to signal actions.
core:
  githubLink: design-system/src/components/Button
  sketchLink: g0Kvajz
  storybookLink: components-button--default
healthcare:
  sketchLink: v8jeK3d
medicare:
  sketchLink: Vr4yyWw
---

import { Alert, ArrowIcon, Button } from '@cmsgov/design-system';

<Alert heading="Are you upgrading to v4 (healthcare v8, medicare v6)?">

  [Take a look at our v4 buttons migration guide](/getting-started/migrating-to-new-buttons) to get started.
  
</Alert>

## Examples

The following tables give an overview of the different available button styles in the selected design system. Each button has three controllable traits that can be used in various combinations. They are:

1. _Variation_: which affects the border and background styles
2. Color: defined as either _main_ or _alternate_
3. Context: specified as either _on-light_ or _on-dark_

See the examples in the following sections to learn how they can be applied.

<ButtonVariationsTable />

### Outline button

<StorybookExample
  componentName="outline-button"
  sourceFilePath="components/Button/Button.tsx"
  storyId="components-button--default&args=children:Outline"
/>

### Solid button

<StorybookExample
  componentName="solid-button"
  sourceFilePath="components/Button/Button.tsx"
  storyId="components-button--default&args=children:Solid;variation:solid"
/>

### Ghost button

<StorybookExample
  componentName="ghost-button"
  sourceFilePath="components/Button/Button.tsx"
  storyId="components-button--default&args=children:Ghost;variation:ghost"
/>

### Alternate buttons

Each button variation (outline, solid, ghost) has an alternate option. The alternate options can be styled differently than the main buttons.

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare', 'medicare']}>

  #### Outline alternate button (Unused)

</ThemeContent>
<ThemeContent neverThemes={['healthcare', 'medicare']}>

  #### Outline alternate button

  <StorybookExample
    componentName="outline-alt-button"
    sourceFilePath="components/Button/Button.tsx"
    storyId="components-button--default&args=children:Outline;isAlternate:true"
  />
</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>

  #### Solid alternate button (Unused)

</ThemeContent>
<ThemeContent neverThemes={['healthcare']}>

  #### Solid alternate button
  
  <StorybookExample
    componentName="solid-alt-button"
    sourceFilePath="components/Button/Button.tsx"
    storyId="components-button--default&args=children:Solid;variation:solid;isAlternate:true"
  />
</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare', 'medicare']}>

  #### Ghost alternate button (Unused)

</ThemeContent>
<ThemeContent neverThemes={['healthcare', 'medicare']}>

  #### Ghost alternate button

  <StorybookExample
    componentName="ghost-alt-button"
    sourceFilePath="components/Button/Button.tsx"
    storyId="components-button--default&args=children:Ghost;variation:ghost;isAlternate:true"
  />
</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>

  ### On dark background (Unused)

</ThemeContent>
<ThemeContent neverThemes={['healthcare']}>

  ### On dark background

  <StorybookExample
    componentName="on-dark-buttons"
    sourceFilePath="components/Button/Button.tsx"
    storyId="components-button--variations-on-dark"
  />
</ThemeContent>

### Changing the size

Buttons can exist in two alternative sizes: "big" or "small". See the example below.

<EmbeddedExample>
  <div>
    <Button className="ds-u-margin-right--1" size="big">
      Big
    </Button>
    <Button className="ds-u-margin-right--1">Default</Button>
    <Button className="ds-u-margin-right--1" size="small">
      Small
    </Button>
  </div>
</EmbeddedExample>

### Adding icons

- Add an inline SVG icon and it will become the same color as the button text. For the crispest icon rendering, ensure the icon has a square `viewBox` with values that are multiples of `8` (ie. `24x24`).
- Use the margin utility class to add spacing between the icon and button text.

<EmbeddedExample>
  <div>
    <Button className="ds-u-margin-right--1">
      <ArrowIcon direction="left" className="ds-u-margin-right--05" />
      Left Icon
    </Button>
    <Button className="ds-u-margin-right--1">
      Right Icon
      <ArrowIcon direction="right" className="ds-u-margin-left--05" />
    </Button>
    <Button>No Icon</Button>
  </div>
</EmbeddedExample>

## Code

### React

The `Button` component accepts its text as children (AKA inner HTML), which
means you can also pass in HTML or custom components. This gives you a lot of
flexibility and supports a variety of advanced use cases. The most common use
case would be passing in an SVG icon along with the text.

In addition to the supported props listed, you can also pass in additional
props, which will be passed to the rendered root component. For example,
you could pass in a `target` prop to pass to the rendered anchor element.

<PropTable componentName="Button" />

### Styles

The following Sass variables can be overridden to customize Button components:

<ComponentThemeOptions componentname="button" />

### Google Analytics

**Analytics event tracking is disabled by default.**

#### Enable event tracking

Import and set the `setButtonSendsAnalytics` feature flag to `true` in your application's entry file:

```js
import { setButtonSendsAnalytics } from '@cmsgov/<design-system-package>';
setButtonSendsAnalytics(true);
```

On applications where the page has `utag` loaded, the data goes to Tealium which allows it to route to Google Analytics or the currently approved data analytics tools.

#### Disable event tracking

For the `analytics` prop, pass the value `false` to the component to disable analytics tracking for a singular component instance

```js
analytics={false}
```

#### Override event tracking

A custom heading value can be sent for an analytics event by using the prop `analyticsLabelOverride`. It is recommended that this value be used to prevent sensitive personal information from being passed to analytics trackers.

## Guidance

### When to use

- Use buttons for the most important actions you want users to take on your site, such as "Download," "Sign up," or "Apply."

### When to consider alternatives

- Less popular or less important actions may be visually styled as links.
- Buttons are for performing actions, not making choices. If you need your users to make a choice, use something else like radio buttons. Alternatively, if one choice is much less important then try styling it as a link instead.

### Usage

- Use the "primary" button variation for the button most users should click. This is your primary call-to-action.
- Avoid using too many buttons on a page. Aim to use only one button per page.
- Avoid similar styles elsewhere on the page that could be confused for buttons.
- Use buttons for the primary action and links for secondary actions.

**Label text**

- Use sentence case for button labels.
- Button labels should be as short as possible with “trigger words” that your users will recognize to clearly explain what will happen when the button is clicked (for example, “Save and continue,” “Download” or “Sign up”).
- Make the first word of the button’s label a verb. For example, instead of “Complaint Filing”, label the button “File a complaint.”
- If a button has an icon, it should still have accompanying text describing the action.

**Destructive buttons**

- Use the "danger" button variation for destructive buttons. For example, buttons that delete or reset a user's information.
- Confirm the user meant to trigger a destructive action before following through with the action.
- Provide a method for a user to undo a destructive action.

**Disabled buttons**

- Don’t disable buttons, unless there’s a good reason to.
- If you do disable a button, make sure it receives the disabled styling. A `button` element will automatically be styled as a disabled button when it has the `disabled` HTML attribute, but an `a` element will need to have the `.ds-c-button--disabled` class applied to it.

### Accessibility

- Buttons should display a visible focus state when users tab to them.
- Create a button with a `button` or `a` element to retain the native click functionality. Avoid using `<div>` or `<img>` tags to create buttons. Screen readers don't automatically know either is a usable button.
- When styling links to look like buttons, remember that screen readers handle links slightly differently than they do buttons. Pressing the `Space` key triggers a button, but pressing the `Enter` key triggers a link.
- Dimmed or unavailable buttons should have the `disabled` attribute applied. This removes native click and keypress events from the button. It also prevents automated scanners from logging a low contrast error. Finally, it announces the button as "dimmed" or "disabled" to screen readers, offering users additional context.

## Learn more

- [Beyond Blue Links: Making Clickable Elements Recognizable](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/clickable-elements/)
- [7 Basic Best Practices for Buttons](http://www.uxmatters.com/mt/archives/2012/05/7-basic-best-practices-for-buttons.php)
- [The Grammar of Interactivity](http://www.uxbooth.com/articles/the-grammar-of-interactivity/)
- [GOV.UK navigation buttons discussion](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/Navigation-buttons-continue-next-previous-ghLqL5a9Ostxxb3rvBhyO)

**Button alignment**

- [Buttons on forms and surveys: a look at some research](http://www.slideshare.net/cjforms/buttons-on-forms-and-surveys-a-look-at-some-research-2012)
- [Previous and Next Actions in Web Forms](https://www.lukew.com/ff/entry.asp?730=)

**ARIA**

- [Using the button role](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/ARIA_Techniques/Using_the_button_role)
- [Building Accessible Buttons with ARIA](https://www.deque.com/blog/accessible-aria-buttons)

Commit message:

Added exceptions page and modified other pages to add M.gov guidelines

packages/docs/content/components/button.mdx, after:

---
title: Button
intro: Use buttons to signal actions.
core:
  githubLink: design-system/src/components/Button
  sketchLink: g0Kvajz
  storybookLink: components-button--default
healthcare:
  sketchLink: v8jeK3d
medicare:
  sketchLink: Vr4yyWw
---

import { Alert, ArrowIcon, Button } from '@cmsgov/design-system';

<Alert heading="Are you upgrading to v4 (healthcare v8, medicare v6)?">

  [Take a look at our v4 buttons migration guide](/getting-started/migrating-to-new-buttons) to get started.
  
</Alert>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['medicare']}>

Action buttons allow people to take actions from a current state to a future state. They are promises to the user; they must deliver the promise they offer by doing what the button says it would do.

### Guidance
  
- Action buttons do NOT include icons. 
<br/> <i>Exception:</i> Can include icons in buttons in mobile for CTAs outlining functionality.<br /> Examples: Filter, Sort, Map, and Menu. 
- Other exceptions require advance and separate approval than mock-ups by product teams. See [Exception process](../../guidelines/exceptions/?theme=medicare)" in Foundations.
- Buttons use title case. Example: Join Plan or Find Doctors.
- Note that clickable cards are sentence case. See that component for more information.

When pairing 2 CTAs:
- In forms/decision trees: Have the preferred action be on the right. Example: Back/Next or Cancel/Submit.
- All other cases: Have the preferred action be on the left. Example: Create Account/Return to Home or Change My Account/Stop Easy Pay.

See Content Guidelines in top tab for more information.

</ThemeContent>

## Examples

The following tables give an overview of the different available button styles in the selected design system. Each button has three controllable traits that can be used in various combinations. They are:

1. _Variation_: which affects the border and background styles
2. Color: defined as either _main_ or _alternate_
3. Context: specified as either _on-light_ or _on-dark_

See the examples in the following sections to learn how they can be applied.

<ButtonVariationsTable />

### Outline button

<StorybookExample
  componentName="outline-button"
  sourceFilePath="components/Button/Button.tsx"
  storyId="components-button--default&args=children:Outline"
/>

### Solid button

<StorybookExample
  componentName="solid-button"
  sourceFilePath="components/Button/Button.tsx"
  storyId="components-button--default&args=children:Solid;variation:solid"
/>

### Ghost button

<StorybookExample
  componentName="ghost-button"
  sourceFilePath="components/Button/Button.tsx"
  storyId="components-button--default&args=children:Ghost;variation:ghost"
/>

### Alternate buttons

Each button variation (outline, solid, ghost) has an alternate option. The alternate options can be styled differently than the main buttons.

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare', 'medicare']}>

  #### Outline alternate button (Unused)

</ThemeContent>
<ThemeContent neverThemes={['healthcare', 'medicare']}>

  #### Outline alternate button

  <StorybookExample
    componentName="outline-alt-button"
    sourceFilePath="components/Button/Button.tsx"
    storyId="components-button--default&args=children:Outline;isAlternate:true"
  />
</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>

  #### Solid alternate button (Unused)

</ThemeContent>
<ThemeContent neverThemes={['healthcare']}>

  #### Solid alternate button
  
  <StorybookExample
    componentName="solid-alt-button"
    sourceFilePath="components/Button/Button.tsx"
    storyId="components-button--default&args=children:Solid;variation:solid;isAlternate:true"
  />
</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare', 'medicare']}>

  #### Ghost alternate button (Unused)

</ThemeContent>
<ThemeContent neverThemes={['healthcare', 'medicare']}>

  #### Ghost alternate button

  <StorybookExample
    componentName="ghost-alt-button"
    sourceFilePath="components/Button/Button.tsx"
    storyId="components-button--default&args=children:Ghost;variation:ghost;isAlternate:true"
  />
</ThemeContent>

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['healthcare']}>

  ### On dark background (Unused)

</ThemeContent>
<ThemeContent neverThemes={['healthcare']}>

  ### On dark background

  <StorybookExample
    componentName="on-dark-buttons"
    sourceFilePath="components/Button/Button.tsx"
    storyId="components-button--variations-on-dark"
  />
</ThemeContent>

### Changing the size

Buttons can exist in two alternative sizes: "big" or "small". See the example below.

<EmbeddedExample>
  <div>
    <Button className="ds-u-margin-right--1" size="big">
      Big
    </Button>
    <Button className="ds-u-margin-right--1">Default</Button>
    <Button className="ds-u-margin-right--1" size="small">
      Small
    </Button>
  </div>
</EmbeddedExample>

### Adding icons

- Add an inline SVG icon and it will become the same color as the button text. For the crispest icon rendering, ensure the icon has a square `viewBox` with values that are multiples of `8` (ie. `24x24`).
- Use the margin utility class to add spacing between the icon and button text.

<EmbeddedExample>
  <div>
    <Button className="ds-u-margin-right--1">
      <ArrowIcon direction="left" className="ds-u-margin-right--05" />
      Left Icon
    </Button>
    <Button className="ds-u-margin-right--1">
      Right Icon
      <ArrowIcon direction="right" className="ds-u-margin-left--05" />
    </Button>
    <Button>No Icon</Button>
  </div>
</EmbeddedExample>

## Code

### React

The `Button` component accepts its text as children (AKA inner HTML), which
means you can also pass in HTML or custom components. This gives you a lot of
flexibility and supports a variety of advanced use cases. The most common use
case would be passing in an SVG icon along with the text.

In addition to the supported props listed, you can also pass in additional
props, which will be passed to the rendered root component. For example,
you could pass in a `target` prop to pass to the rendered anchor element.

<PropTable componentName="Button" />

### Styles

The following Sass variables can be overridden to customize Button components:

<ComponentThemeOptions componentname="button" />

### Google Analytics

**Analytics event tracking is disabled by default.**

#### Enable event tracking

Import and set the `setButtonSendsAnalytics` feature flag to `true` in your application's entry file:

```js
import { setButtonSendsAnalytics } from '@cmsgov/<design-system-package>';
setButtonSendsAnalytics(true);
```

On applications where the page has `utag` loaded, the data goes to Tealium which allows it to route to Google Analytics or the currently approved data analytics tools.

#### Disable event tracking

For the `analytics` prop, pass the value `false` to the component to disable analytics tracking for a singular component instance

```js
analytics={false}
```

#### Override event tracking

A custom heading value can be sent for an analytics event by using the prop `analyticsLabelOverride`. It is recommended that this value be used to prevent sensitive personal information from being passed to analytics trackers.

## Guidance

### When to use

- Use buttons for the most important actions you want users to take on your site, such as "Download," "Sign up," or "Apply."

### When to consider alternatives

- Less popular or less important actions may be visually styled as links.
- Buttons are for performing actions, not making choices. If you need your users to make a choice, use something else like radio buttons. Alternatively, if one choice is much less important then try styling it as a link instead.

### Usage

- Use the "primary" button variation for the button most users should click. This is your primary call-to-action.
- Avoid using too many buttons on a page. Aim to use only one button per page.
- Avoid similar styles elsewhere on the page that could be confused for buttons.
- Use buttons for the primary action and links for secondary actions.

**Label text**

- Use sentence case for button labels.
- Button labels should be as short as possible with “trigger words” that your users will recognize to clearly explain what will happen when the button is clicked (for example, “Save and continue,” “Download” or “Sign up”).
- Make the first word of the button’s label a verb. For example, instead of “Complaint Filing”, label the button “File a complaint.”
- If a button has an icon, it should still have accompanying text describing the action.

**Destructive buttons**

- Use the "danger" button variation for destructive buttons. For example, buttons that delete or reset a user's information.
- Confirm the user meant to trigger a destructive action before following through with the action.
- Provide a method for a user to undo a destructive action.

**Disabled buttons**

- Don’t disable buttons, unless there’s a good reason to.
- If you do disable a button, make sure it receives the disabled styling. A `button` element will automatically be styled as a disabled button when it has the `disabled` HTML attribute, but an `a` element will need to have the `.ds-c-button--disabled` class applied to it.

### Accessibility

- Buttons should display a visible focus state when users tab to them.
- Create a button with a `button` or `a` element to retain the native click functionality. Avoid using `<div>` or `<img>` tags to create buttons. Screen readers don't automatically know either is a usable button.
- When styling links to look like buttons, remember that screen readers handle links slightly differently than they do buttons. Pressing the `Space` key triggers a button, but pressing the `Enter` key triggers a link.
- Dimmed or unavailable buttons should have the `disabled` attribute applied. This removes native click and keypress events from the button. It also prevents automated scanners from logging a low contrast error. Finally, it announces the button as "dimmed" or "disabled" to screen readers, offering users additional context.

## Learn more

- [Beyond Blue Links: Making Clickable Elements Recognizable](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/clickable-elements/)
- [7 Basic Best Practices for Buttons](http://www.uxmatters.com/mt/archives/2012/05/7-basic-best-practices-for-buttons.php)
- [The Grammar of Interactivity](http://www.uxbooth.com/articles/the-grammar-of-interactivity/)
- [GOV.UK navigation buttons discussion](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/Navigation-buttons-continue-next-previous-ghLqL5a9Ostxxb3rvBhyO)

**Button alignment**

- [Buttons on forms and surveys: a look at some research](http://www.slideshare.net/cjforms/buttons-on-forms-and-surveys-a-look-at-some-research-2012)
- [Previous and Next Actions in Web Forms](https://www.lukew.com/ff/entry.asp?730=)

**ARIA**

- [Using the button role](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/ARIA_Techniques/Using_the_button_role)
- [Building Accessible Buttons with ARIA](https://www.deque.com/blog/accessible-aria-buttons)
