packages/docs/content/components/icon.mdx, before:

---
title: Icon
intro: Icons help communicate meaning, actions, status, or feedback.
core:
  githubLink: design-system/src/components/Icons
  sketchLink: ZOm83Y3
  storybookLink: components-icons--available-icons
---

import { CloseIcon, SvgIcon } from '@cmsgov/design-system';

## Examples

The `<SvgIcon>` component is a re-usable component that wraps its children in an `<svg>` element.
This component is used by each individual icon component listed below.

<StorybookExample
  componentName="icons"
  sourceFilePath="components/Icons/SvgIcon.tsx"
  storyId="components-icons--available-icons"
  minHeight={250}
/>

### Changing icon color

Icon components support a few built-in color options that can be applied by using one of the following utility classes.

If you need a different color for an icon, you can pass a custom class to an icon component through the `class` prop. Then, in your application CSS, set the `color` prop.

| Color   | CSS utility Class                     | Example                                                                                                                     |
| ------- | ------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Primary | <code>ds-c-icon-color--primary</code> | <div class="ds-u-text-align--center"><CloseIcon class='ds-c-icon-color--primary' /></div>                                   |
| Inverse | <code>ds-c-icon-color--inverse</code> | <div class="ds-base--inverse ds-u-padding--05 ds-u-text-align--center"><CloseIcon class='ds-c-icon-color--inverse' /></div> |
| Error   | <code>ds-c-icon-color--error</code>   | <div class="ds-u-text-align--center"><CloseIcon class='ds-c-icon-color--error' /></div>                                     |
| Warn    | <code>ds-c-icon-color--warn</code>    | <div class="ds-u-text-align--center"><CloseIcon class='ds-c-icon-color--warn' /></div>                                      |
| Success | <code>ds-c-icon-color--success</code> | <div class="ds-u-text-align--center"><CloseIcon class='ds-c-icon-color--success' /> </div>                                  |

### Changing icon size

Icon components use `ems` for their height and width and can thereby be sized by changing the font-size of the SVG element.

It is recommended that the [font-size utilities](/utilities/font/font-size/) be used.

| Size        | Example                                   |
| ----------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| Small       | <CloseIcon class='ds-u-font-size--sm' />  |
| Default     | <CloseIcon />                             |
| Large       | <CloseIcon class='ds-u-font-size--lg' />  |
| Extra Large | <CloseIcon class='ds-u-font-size--xl' />  |
| 2x Large    | <CloseIcon class='ds-u-font-size--2xl' /> |
| 3x Large    | <CloseIcon class='ds-u-font-size--3xl' /> |
| 4x Large    | <CloseIcon class='ds-u-font-size--4xl' /> |
| 5x Large    | <CloseIcon class='ds-u-font-size--5xl' /> |

### Creating custom icons

The `<SvgIcon>` component can be used for other custom icons. It allows you to pass in the SVG child elements. This component is recommended if you want built-in accessibility features and standard icon styles.

In the example below, the `<SvgIcon>` component is used with a custom path.

<EmbeddedExample>
  <SvgIcon title="Smiley face" viewBox="0 0 496 512">
    <path d="M248 8C111 8 0 119 0 256s111 248 248 248 248-111 248-248S385 8 248 8zm0 448c-110.3 0-200-89.7-200-200S137.7 56 248 56s200 89.7 200 200-89.7 200-200 200zm-80-216c17.7 0 32-14.3 32-32s-14.3-32-32-32-32 14.3-32 32 14.3 32 32 32zm160 0c17.7 0 32-14.3 32-32s-14.3-32-32-32-32 14.3-32 32 14.3 32 32 32zm4 72.6c-20.8 25-51.5 39.4-84 39.4s-63.2-14.3-84-39.4c-8.5-10.2-23.7-11.5-33.8-3.1-10.2 8.5-11.5 23.6-3.1 33.8 30 36 74.1 56.6 120.9 56.6s90.9-20.6 120.9-56.6c8.5-10.2 7.1-25.3-3.1-33.8-10.1-8.4-25.3-7.1-33.8 3.1z" />
  </SvgIcon>
</EmbeddedExample>

## Code

### React

<PropTable componentName="SvgIcon" />

### Styles

The following Sass variables can be overridden to customize Icon components:

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="icon"
/>

## Guidance

### Accessibility

The `<SvgIcon>` component has built-in accessibility features including:

- a built-in `title` attribute. For any specific exported icon, the `title` attribute is defaulted, but can be overwritten.
- `focusable="false"` which prevents the icon from being focusable
- `role="img"` which tells assistive technologies that the icon's purpose is as an image
- optional `description` attribute which can be used for a more detailed explanation of the icon's contents. Meant to be used to provide more detail than just the `title`
- an available`ariaHidden` attribute which can be used if the icon's context is described elsewhere. For example, if the icon is part of a button with text, the text may provide the text description instead of the icon component.

Commit message:

Added exceptions page and modified other pages to add M.gov guidelines

packages/docs/content/components/icon.mdx, after:

---
title: Icon
intro: Icons help communicate meaning, actions, status, or feedback.
core:
  githubLink: design-system/src/components/Icons
  sketchLink: ZOm83Y3
  storybookLink: components-icons--available-icons
---

import { CloseIcon, SvgIcon } from '@cmsgov/design-system';

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['medicare']}>

## Guidance

- <b>Use icons sparingly</b> - Only use if they add value/meaning for the user. Too many icons = users stop paying attention.
- <b>Use the approved icon for similar actions/purpose</b> - Consistency across the entire site is key for user recognition and trust. 
- <b>Include a text label with most icons</b> - Users need text to overcome ambiguity.
- <b>Any new icons or changes in use case need prior approval</b> - Contact the internal CMS Design Guild early in your design process. (See "Foundations" page for process.)
-- Specialty icons for similar use cases are rare. Requests will be considered on a case-by-case basis. In reviewing requests, we'll consider use case, similar icons already approved, and impact to users (UX, consistency, Medicare brand, purpose, and accompanying message impact - like immediate & severe bene harm).
- <b>Icons can be teal, navy, or black (following approved M.gov DS color swatches) unless stated in the use case notes below.</b>

</ThemeContent>

## Examples

The `<SvgIcon>` component is a re-usable component that wraps its children in an `<svg>` element.
This component is used by each individual icon component listed below.

<StorybookExample
  componentName="icons"
  sourceFilePath="components/Icons/SvgIcon.tsx"
  storyId="components-icons--available-icons"
  minHeight={250}
/>

### Changing icon color

Icon components support a few built-in color options that can be applied by using one of the following utility classes.

If you need a different color for an icon, you can pass a custom class to an icon component through the `class` prop. Then, in your application CSS, set the `color` prop.

| Color   | CSS utility Class                     | Example                                                                                                                     |
| ------- | ------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Primary | <code>ds-c-icon-color--primary</code> | <div class="ds-u-text-align--center"><CloseIcon class='ds-c-icon-color--primary' /></div>                                   |
| Inverse | <code>ds-c-icon-color--inverse</code> | <div class="ds-base--inverse ds-u-padding--05 ds-u-text-align--center"><CloseIcon class='ds-c-icon-color--inverse' /></div> |
| Error   | <code>ds-c-icon-color--error</code>   | <div class="ds-u-text-align--center"><CloseIcon class='ds-c-icon-color--error' /></div>                                     |
| Warn    | <code>ds-c-icon-color--warn</code>    | <div class="ds-u-text-align--center"><CloseIcon class='ds-c-icon-color--warn' /></div>                                      |
| Success | <code>ds-c-icon-color--success</code> | <div class="ds-u-text-align--center"><CloseIcon class='ds-c-icon-color--success' /> </div>                                  |

### Changing icon size

Icon components use `ems` for their height and width and can thereby be sized by changing the font-size of the SVG element.

It is recommended that the [font-size utilities](/utilities/font/font-size/) be used.

| Size        | Example                                   |
| ----------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| Small       | <CloseIcon class='ds-u-font-size--sm' />  |
| Default     | <CloseIcon />                             |
| Large       | <CloseIcon class='ds-u-font-size--lg' />  |
| Extra Large | <CloseIcon class='ds-u-font-size--xl' />  |
| 2x Large    | <CloseIcon class='ds-u-font-size--2xl' /> |
| 3x Large    | <CloseIcon class='ds-u-font-size--3xl' /> |
| 4x Large    | <CloseIcon class='ds-u-font-size--4xl' /> |
| 5x Large    | <CloseIcon class='ds-u-font-size--5xl' /> |

### Creating custom icons

The `<SvgIcon>` component can be used for other custom icons. It allows you to pass in the SVG child elements. This component is recommended if you want built-in accessibility features and standard icon styles.

In the example below, the `<SvgIcon>` component is used with a custom path.

<EmbeddedExample>
  <SvgIcon title="Smiley face" viewBox="0 0 496 512">
    <path d="M248 8C111 8 0 119 0 256s111 248 248 248 248-111 248-248S385 8 248 8zm0 448c-110.3 0-200-89.7-200-200S137.7 56 248 56s200 89.7 200 200-89.7 200-200 200zm-80-216c17.7 0 32-14.3 32-32s-14.3-32-32-32-32 14.3-32 32 14.3 32 32 32zm160 0c17.7 0 32-14.3 32-32s-14.3-32-32-32-32 14.3-32 32 14.3 32 32 32zm4 72.6c-20.8 25-51.5 39.4-84 39.4s-63.2-14.3-84-39.4c-8.5-10.2-23.7-11.5-33.8-3.1-10.2 8.5-11.5 23.6-3.1 33.8 30 36 74.1 56.6 120.9 56.6s90.9-20.6 120.9-56.6c8.5-10.2 7.1-25.3-3.1-33.8-10.1-8.4-25.3-7.1-33.8 3.1z" />
  </SvgIcon>
</EmbeddedExample>

## Code

### React

<PropTable componentName="SvgIcon" />

### Styles

The following Sass variables can be overridden to customize Icon components:

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="icon"
/>

## Guidance

### Accessibility

The `<SvgIcon>` component has built-in accessibility features including:

- a built-in `title` attribute. For any specific exported icon, the `title` attribute is defaulted, but can be overwritten.
- `focusable="false"` which prevents the icon from being focusable
- `role="img"` which tells assistive technologies that the icon's purpose is as an image
- optional `description` attribute which can be used for a more detailed explanation of the icon's contents. Meant to be used to provide more detail than just the `title`
- an available`ariaHidden` attribute which can be used if the icon's context is described elsewhere. For example, if the icon is part of a button with text, the text may provide the text description instead of the icon component.
