packages/docs/content/components/masked-field.mdx, before:

---
title: Masked field
---

import { TextField, unmaskValue } from '@cmsgov/design-system';

A masked field is an enhanced input field that improves readability by providing visual and non-visual cues to a user about the expected value.

## Masked field

`<TextField mask={...}>`

A Mask component renders a controlled input field that applies formatting to the input value when the field is blurred.

Passing a `mask` prop into the `TextField` component with a valid value will
enable formatting to occur when the field is blurred. To "unmask" the
value, you can import and call the `unmaskValue` method.

<EmbeddedExample>
  <>
    <TextField
      ariaLabel="Enter monthly income amount in dollars."
      labelClassName="ds-u-margin-top--0"
      label="Currency"
      mask="currency"
      inputMode="numeric"
      type="text"
      name="currency_example"
      onBlur={(evt) => console.log('Unmasked value: ', unmaskValue(evt.target.value, 'currency'))}
      defaultValue="2,500"
    />
    <TextField
      label="Phone number"
      mask="phone"
      name="phone_example"
      onBlur={(evt) => console.log('Unmasked value: ', unmaskValue(evt.target.value, 'phone'))}
      type="tel"
      defaultValue="1234567890"
    />
    <TextField
      label="Social security number (SSN)"
      mask="ssn"
      inputMode="numeric"
      type="text"
      name="ssn_example"
      onBlur={(evt) => console.log('Unmasked value: ', unmaskValue(evt.target.value, 'ssn'))}
      defaultValue="123456789"
    />
    <TextField
      label="Zip code"
      mask="zip"
      inputMode="numeric"
      type="text"
      name="zip_example"
      onBlur={(evt) => console.log('Unmasked value: ', unmaskValue(evt.target.value, 'zip'))}
      defaultValue="123456789"
    />
  </>
</EmbeddedExample>

### Props

<PropTable componentName="TextField" />

## Customization

The following Sass variables can be overridden to customize Input/Form components:

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="text-input"
/>

### Form components

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="form"
/>

Commit message:

[WNMGDS-1722] component page header (#1977)
* removing unused files

* removing related uswds frontmatter field

* component page header link items

* theme based links for component pages

* adding intro into page header

* cleanup

* updates

* [WNMGDS-1722] component content update (#1985)

* removing ViewSourceLink

* moving intro text into frontmatter

* adding links wip

* updated component links

* fixing image asset url

* updated component github links to link to source directory

packages/docs/content/components/masked-field.mdx, after:

---
title: Masked field
intro: A masked field is an enhanced input field that improves readability by providing visual and non-visual cues to a user about the expected value.
core:
  githubLink: design-system/src/components/TextField
  storybookLink: components-text-field--masked-field
---

import { TextField, unmaskValue } from '@cmsgov/design-system';


## Masked field

`<TextField mask={...}>`

A Mask component renders a controlled input field that applies formatting to the input value when the field is blurred.

Passing a `mask` prop into the `TextField` component with a valid value will
enable formatting to occur when the field is blurred. To "unmask" the
value, you can import and call the `unmaskValue` method.

<EmbeddedExample>
  <>
    <TextField
      ariaLabel="Enter monthly income amount in dollars."
      labelClassName="ds-u-margin-top--0"
      label="Currency"
      mask="currency"
      inputMode="numeric"
      type="text"
      name="currency_example"
      onBlur={(evt) => console.log('Unmasked value: ', unmaskValue(evt.target.value, 'currency'))}
      defaultValue="2,500"
    />
    <TextField
      label="Phone number"
      mask="phone"
      name="phone_example"
      onBlur={(evt) => console.log('Unmasked value: ', unmaskValue(evt.target.value, 'phone'))}
      type="tel"
      defaultValue="1234567890"
    />
    <TextField
      label="Social security number (SSN)"
      mask="ssn"
      inputMode="numeric"
      type="text"
      name="ssn_example"
      onBlur={(evt) => console.log('Unmasked value: ', unmaskValue(evt.target.value, 'ssn'))}
      defaultValue="123456789"
    />
    <TextField
      label="Zip code"
      mask="zip"
      inputMode="numeric"
      type="text"
      name="zip_example"
      onBlur={(evt) => console.log('Unmasked value: ', unmaskValue(evt.target.value, 'zip'))}
      defaultValue="123456789"
    />
  </>
</EmbeddedExample>

### Props

<PropTable componentName="TextField" />

## Customization

The following Sass variables can be overridden to customize Input/Form components:

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="text-input"
/>

### Form components

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="form"
/>
