packages/docs/content/components/modal-dialog.mdx, before:

---
title: Modal dialog
---

import { Dialog } from '@cmsgov/design-system';

The dialog component can be used to focus a user's attention on a single piece of content, without taking them to a new screen. Please use with caution; view our guidance for more details.

## Dialog size variants

Apply one of the size modifier classes to the `ds-c-dialog` element to change the dialog width.

- `.ds-c-dialog--narrow`
- `.ds-c-dialog--wide`
- `.ds-c-dialog--full`

## `<Dialog>`

<StorybookExample
  componentName="dialog"
  sourceFilePath="components/Dialog/Dialog.tsx"
  storyId="components-dialog--dialog-example"
  minHeight={400}
/>

### Props

<PropTable componentName="Dialog" />

## Guidance

### Usage

- `<Dialog>` makes use of the `<AriaModal>` component maintained by [react-aria-modal docs on Github](https://github.com/davidtheclark/react-aria-modal). The above documented props are only those directly exposed by the `<Dialog>` component, but you can pass props specific to `<AriaModal>` here as well, e.g. you can set the [`scrollDisabled`](https://github.com/davidtheclark/react-aria-modal#scrolldisabled) prop if you'd like to enable scrolling behind the modal window.

### Accessibility

#### Keyboard support

- `Enter` or `Space` to select the highlighted item.
- `Tab` to move the focus sequentially through the list of focusable items.
- `Shift + Tab` to move the focus sequentially through the list of focusable items in reversed order.

#### Focus Management

- When the modal is opened, the entire modal is the default focus state. Most screen readers will announce the entire dialog content.
- Focus is trapped within the modal and users can then navigate through the dialog actions with the keyboard.
- Escape will close the modal. To disable exiting when users press the Escape key, set the `escapeExits` prop to `false`
- When the modal closes, focus returns to the element that was focused just before the modal is activated
- To place the focus inside of the dialog on activating the modal, set the dialog focus using the `initialFocus` prop with boolean prop `focusDialog` set to `false`

### Learn more

- [Making an accessible dialog box](https://www.nczonline.net/blog/2013/02/12/making-an-accessible-dialog-box/)
- [GOV.UK modal dialog boxes discussion](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/Modal-dialog-boxes-jbsTPoITg37IIc6ybjetM)
- [Overuse of Overlays: How to Avoid Misusing Lightboxes](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/overuse-of-overlays/)
- [Using ARIA role=dialog to implement a modal dialog box](https://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/wiki/Using_ARIA_role%3Ddialog_to_implement_a_modal_dialog_box)

## Customization

The following Sass variables can be overridden to customize Dialog components:

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="dialog"
/>

### Related patterns

- [Alert](/components/alert/)

## Google Analytics

**Analytics event tracking is disabled by default.**

### Enable event tracking

Import and set the `setDialogSendsAnalytics` feature flag to `true` in your application's entry file:

```js
import { setDialogSendsAnalytics } from '@cmsgov/<design-system-package>';
setDialogSendsAnalytics(true);
```

On applications where the page has `utag` loaded, the data goes to Tealium which allows it to route to Google Analytics or the currently approved data analytics tools.

### Disable event tracking

For the `analytics` prop, pass the value `false` to the component to disable analytics tracking for a singular component instance

```js
analytics={false}
```

### Override event tracking

A custom heading value can be sent for an analytics event by using the prop `analyticsLabelOverride`. It is recommended that this value be used to prevent sensitive personal information from being passed to analytics trackers.

Commit message:

[WNMGDS-1722] component page header (#1977)
* removing unused files

* removing related uswds frontmatter field

* component page header link items

* theme based links for component pages

* adding intro into page header

* cleanup

* updates

* [WNMGDS-1722] component content update (#1985)

* removing ViewSourceLink

* moving intro text into frontmatter

* adding links wip

* updated component links

* fixing image asset url

* updated component github links to link to source directory

packages/docs/content/components/modal-dialog.mdx, after:

---
title: Modal dialog
intro: The dialog component can be used to focus a user's attention on a single piece of content, without taking them to a new screen. Please use with caution; view our guidance for more details.
core:
  githubLink: design-system/src/components/Dialog
  sketchLink: Jn3kY4k
  storybookLink: components-dialog--dialog-example
healthcare:
  sketchLink: m1Y5wQ7
medicare:
  sketchLink: YGOggo0
---

import { Dialog } from '@cmsgov/design-system';

## Dialog size variants

Apply one of the size modifier classes to the `ds-c-dialog` element to change the dialog width.

- `.ds-c-dialog--narrow`
- `.ds-c-dialog--wide`
- `.ds-c-dialog--full`

## `<Dialog>`

<StorybookExample
  componentName="dialog"
  storyId="components-dialog--dialog-example"
  minHeight={400}
/>

### Props

<PropTable componentName="Dialog" />

## Guidance

### Usage

- `<Dialog>` makes use of the `<AriaModal>` component maintained by [react-aria-modal docs on Github](https://github.com/davidtheclark/react-aria-modal). The above documented props are only those directly exposed by the `<Dialog>` component, but you can pass props specific to `<AriaModal>` here as well, e.g. you can set the [`scrollDisabled`](https://github.com/davidtheclark/react-aria-modal#scrolldisabled) prop if you'd like to enable scrolling behind the modal window.

### Accessibility

#### Keyboard support

- `Enter` or `Space` to select the highlighted item.
- `Tab` to move the focus sequentially through the list of focusable items.
- `Shift + Tab` to move the focus sequentially through the list of focusable items in reversed order.

#### Focus Management

- When the modal is opened, the entire modal is the default focus state. Most screen readers will announce the entire dialog content.
- Focus is trapped within the modal and users can then navigate through the dialog actions with the keyboard.
- Escape will close the modal. To disable exiting when users press the Escape key, set the `escapeExits` prop to `false`
- When the modal closes, focus returns to the element that was focused just before the modal is activated
- To place the focus inside of the dialog on activating the modal, set the dialog focus using the `initialFocus` prop with boolean prop `focusDialog` set to `false`

### Learn more

- [Making an accessible dialog box](https://www.nczonline.net/blog/2013/02/12/making-an-accessible-dialog-box/)
- [GOV.UK modal dialog boxes discussion](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/Modal-dialog-boxes-jbsTPoITg37IIc6ybjetM)
- [Overuse of Overlays: How to Avoid Misusing Lightboxes](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/overuse-of-overlays/)
- [Using ARIA role=dialog to implement a modal dialog box](https://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/wiki/Using_ARIA_role%3Ddialog_to_implement_a_modal_dialog_box)

## Customization

The following Sass variables can be overridden to customize Dialog components:

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="dialog"
/>

### Related patterns

- [Alert](/components/alert/)

## Google Analytics

**Analytics event tracking is disabled by default.**

### Enable event tracking

Import and set the `setDialogSendsAnalytics` feature flag to `true` in your application's entry file:

```js
import { setDialogSendsAnalytics } from '@cmsgov/<design-system-package>';
setDialogSendsAnalytics(true);
```

On applications where the page has `utag` loaded, the data goes to Tealium which allows it to route to Google Analytics or the currently approved data analytics tools.

### Disable event tracking

For the `analytics` prop, pass the value `false` to the component to disable analytics tracking for a singular component instance

```js
analytics={false}
```

### Override event tracking

A custom heading value can be sent for an analytics event by using the prop `analyticsLabelOverride`. It is recommended that this value be used to prevent sensitive personal information from being passed to analytics trackers.
