packages/docs/content/components/skip-nav.mdx, before:

---
title: Skip Nav
---

Skip navigation links allow users with screen readers to bypass long navigation lists. Make sure you include an `id` at the beginning of your main content and that it matches the skipnav link.

## `<SkipNav>`

<StorybookExample
  componentName="pagination"
  sourceFilePath="components/SkipNav/SkipNav.tsx"
  storyId="components-skip-nav--skip-nav-example"
/>

### Props

<PropTable componentName="SkipNav" />

## Guidance

### When to use

- Skip navigation links should come before a long list of navigation links. Most commonly, this occurs before a site's main navigation.

### Usage

- Skip navigation can be visually hidden at first or displayed visually at all times, depending on user needs and design requirements.
- Skip navigation should appear visually on focus.
- The link should skip the user to the main content of the page.
- More than one skip link can be on a page, but be mindful of creating too many.
- Adding a `tabindex="-1"` on the container being skipped to allows older browsers to programmatically move focus properly.

### Learn More

- [Skip Navigation Links on WebAIM](http://webaim.org/techniques/skipnav/)

Commit message:

[WNMGDS-1722] component page header (#1977)
* removing unused files

* removing related uswds frontmatter field

* component page header link items

* theme based links for component pages

* adding intro into page header

* cleanup

* updates

* [WNMGDS-1722] component content update (#1985)

* removing ViewSourceLink

* moving intro text into frontmatter

* adding links wip

* updated component links

* fixing image asset url

* updated component github links to link to source directory

packages/docs/content/components/skip-nav.mdx, after:

---
title: Skip Nav
intro: Skip navigation links allow users with screen readers to bypass long navigation lists.
core:
  githubLink: design-system/src/components/SkipNav
  sketchLink: Gm3E1DO
  storybookLink: components-skip-nav--skip-nav-example
healthcare:
  sketchLink: VrPazJr
---


## `<SkipNav>`

Make sure you include an `id` at the beginning of your main content and that it matches the skipnav link.

<StorybookExample
  componentName="pagination"
  storyId="components-skip-nav--skip-nav-example"
/>

### Props

<PropTable componentName="SkipNav" />

## Guidance

### When to use

- Skip navigation links should come before a long list of navigation links. Most commonly, this occurs before a site's main navigation.

### Usage

- Skip navigation can be visually hidden at first or displayed visually at all times, depending on user needs and design requirements.
- Skip navigation should appear visually on focus.
- The link should skip the user to the main content of the page.
- More than one skip link can be on a page, but be mindful of creating too many.
- Adding a `tabindex="-1"` on the container being skipped to allows older browsers to programmatically move focus properly.

### Learn More

- [Skip Navigation Links on WebAIM](http://webaim.org/techniques/skipnav/)
