packages/docs/content/components/spinner.mdx, before:

---
title: Spinner
---

import { Spinner, Button } from '@cmsgov/design-system';
import loremIpsumGenerator from '../../src/helpers/loremIpsumGenerator';

Spinners signify that the application is waiting for an asynchronous operation to complete.

## Changing the spinner color

To change the color of the spinner, one only has to change the `color` property of the spinner element. This can be done with the standard Design System [utility classes](/foundation/color/). The color of the spinner also defaults to `inherit`, so it will take on the color of the text in its parent container.

## Use inside buttons

<EmbeddedExample>
  <>
    <Button className="ds-u-margin-right--2">
      <Spinner size="small" /> Loading{' '}
    </Button>
    <Button variation="primary" className="ds-u-margin-right--2">
      <Spinner size="small" inversed /> Loading{' '}
    </Button>
    <Button size="big" className="ds-u-margin-right--2">
      <Spinner /> Big button{' '}
    </Button>
    <Button size="big" variation="success" className="ds-u-margin-right--2">
      <Spinner /> Big green button{' '}
    </Button>
  </>
</EmbeddedExample>

## "Filled" mode

To provide more contrast when being rendered over other content, the `.ds-c-spinner--filled` class can be added to give it an appropriately shaped background with some padding.

<EmbeddedExample>
  <>
    <div
      class="ds-u-fill--background-inverse ds-u-color--base-inverse ds-u-padding--2"
      style="position: relative"
    >
      <p>{loremIpsumGenerator('l')}</p>
      <div
        class="ds-u-display--flex ds-u-justify-content--center ds-u-align-items--center"
        style="position: absolute; width: 100%; height: 100%; top: 0; left: 0"
      >
        <Spinner filled aria-valuetext="Loading" />
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="ds-u-padding--2" style="position: relative">
      <p>{loremIpsumGenerator('l')}</p>
      <div
        class="ds-u-display--flex ds-u-justify-content--center ds-u-align-items--center"
        style="position: absolute; width: 100%; height: 100%; top: 0; left: 0"
      >
        <Spinner filled inversed aria-valuetext="Loading" />
      </div>
    </div>
  </>
</EmbeddedExample>

## `<Spinner>`

<StorybookExample
  componentName="spinner"
  sourceFilePath="components/Spinner/Spinner.tsx"
  storyId="components-spinner--default-spinner"
/>

### Props

<PropTable componentName="Spinner" />

## Guidance

### When to use

- To indicate a loading state for quick asynchronous tasks

### When to consider alternatives

- When the process it is waiting for takes a long time. Spinners provide no feedback other than that _we're waiting_, so long processes can make users nervous that something went wrong. Consider adding descriptive text or another UX pattern entirely.
- When you are loading a whole page of content. If all you show the user is a spinner, the user may spend several seconds watching the spinner to be surprised with all the content all at once. Consider using a [_skeleton screen_](https://www.lukew.com/ff/entry.asp?1797) so the user knows what to expect.

### Usage

- If the process takes a long time, use something else.

### Accessibility

- The Spinner element should have an [`aria-valuetext`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/ARIA_Techniques/Using_the_aria-valuetext_attribute) attribute with a value of `loading` to provide a human readable text alternative for screen readers.
- When placed within a parent container, the parent element should include several ARIA attributes: `aria-relevant`, `aria-live`, and optionally `aria-atomic`.
  - `aria-relevant` may include `additions`, `text`, and `removals`. If a section will have items added or removed, use `additions removals`. If there will be additions or text changes without explicit removals, use `additions text`.
  - `aria-live` should be set to `polite` for a screen reader to speak the changes whenever the user is idle. `aria-live="assertive"` should only be used in situations that require a user&rsquo;s immediate attention.
  - By default, a screen reader will only speak the contents of a changed node, and not the entire contents of the element. Set `aria-atomic="true"` for cases, such as an address, where a screen reader should read the contents of the entire element.

## Customization

The following Sass variables can be overridden to customize Spinner components:

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="spinner"
/>

### Learn more

- [Response Times](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/response-times-3-important-limits/)
- [Progress Indicators](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/progress-indicators/)
- [GOV.UK Loading patterns discussion](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/Loading-patterns-v0x8Xych1PbZQXOlbP3L6)
- [Avoid the Spinner](https://www.lukew.com/ff/entry.asp?1797)
- [ARIA Live Regions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/ARIA_Live_Regions)

Commit message:

[WNMGDS-1722] component page header (#1977)
* removing unused files

* removing related uswds frontmatter field

* component page header link items

* theme based links for component pages

* adding intro into page header

* cleanup

* updates

* [WNMGDS-1722] component content update (#1985)

* removing ViewSourceLink

* moving intro text into frontmatter

* adding links wip

* updated component links

* fixing image asset url

* updated component github links to link to source directory

packages/docs/content/components/spinner.mdx, after:

---
title: Spinner
intro: Spinners signify that the application is waiting for an asynchronous operation to complete.
core:
  githubLink: design-system/src/components/Spinner
  sketchLink: OmxV71m
  storybookLink: components-spinner--default-spinner
healthcare:
  sketchLink: YGzlveZ
---

import { Spinner, Button } from '@cmsgov/design-system';
import loremIpsumGenerator from '../../src/helpers/loremIpsumGenerator';

## Changing the spinner color

To change the color of the spinner, one only has to change the `color` property of the spinner element. This can be done with the standard Design System [utility classes](/foundation/color/). The color of the spinner also defaults to `inherit`, so it will take on the color of the text in its parent container.

## Use inside buttons

<EmbeddedExample>
  <>
    <Button className="ds-u-margin-right--2">
      <Spinner size="small" /> Loading{' '}
    </Button>
    <Button variation="primary" className="ds-u-margin-right--2">
      <Spinner size="small" inversed /> Loading{' '}
    </Button>
    <Button size="big" className="ds-u-margin-right--2">
      <Spinner /> Big button{' '}
    </Button>
    <Button size="big" variation="success" className="ds-u-margin-right--2">
      <Spinner /> Big green button{' '}
    </Button>
  </>
</EmbeddedExample>

## "Filled" mode

To provide more contrast when being rendered over other content, the `.ds-c-spinner--filled` class can be added to give it an appropriately shaped background with some padding.

<EmbeddedExample>
  <>
    <div
      class="ds-u-fill--background-inverse ds-u-color--base-inverse ds-u-padding--2"
      style="position: relative"
    >
      <p>{loremIpsumGenerator('l')}</p>
      <div
        class="ds-u-display--flex ds-u-justify-content--center ds-u-align-items--center"
        style="position: absolute; width: 100%; height: 100%; top: 0; left: 0"
      >
        <Spinner filled aria-valuetext="Loading" />
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="ds-u-padding--2" style="position: relative">
      <p>{loremIpsumGenerator('l')}</p>
      <div
        class="ds-u-display--flex ds-u-justify-content--center ds-u-align-items--center"
        style="position: absolute; width: 100%; height: 100%; top: 0; left: 0"
      >
        <Spinner filled inversed aria-valuetext="Loading" />
      </div>
    </div>
  </>
</EmbeddedExample>

## `<Spinner>`

<StorybookExample
  componentName="spinner"
  storyId="components-spinner--default-spinner"
/>

### Props

<PropTable componentName="Spinner" />

## Guidance

### When to use

- To indicate a loading state for quick asynchronous tasks

### When to consider alternatives

- When the process it is waiting for takes a long time. Spinners provide no feedback other than that _we're waiting_, so long processes can make users nervous that something went wrong. Consider adding descriptive text or another UX pattern entirely.
- When you are loading a whole page of content. If all you show the user is a spinner, the user may spend several seconds watching the spinner to be surprised with all the content all at once. Consider using a [_skeleton screen_](https://www.lukew.com/ff/entry.asp?1797) so the user knows what to expect.

### Usage

- If the process takes a long time, use something else.

### Accessibility

- The Spinner element should have an [`aria-valuetext`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/ARIA_Techniques/Using_the_aria-valuetext_attribute) attribute with a value of `loading` to provide a human readable text alternative for screen readers.
- When placed within a parent container, the parent element should include several ARIA attributes: `aria-relevant`, `aria-live`, and optionally `aria-atomic`.
  - `aria-relevant` may include `additions`, `text`, and `removals`. If a section will have items added or removed, use `additions removals`. If there will be additions or text changes without explicit removals, use `additions text`.
  - `aria-live` should be set to `polite` for a screen reader to speak the changes whenever the user is idle. `aria-live="assertive"` should only be used in situations that require a user&rsquo;s immediate attention.
  - By default, a screen reader will only speak the contents of a changed node, and not the entire contents of the element. Set `aria-atomic="true"` for cases, such as an address, where a screen reader should read the contents of the entire element.

## Customization

The following Sass variables can be overridden to customize Spinner components:

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="spinner"
/>

### Learn more

- [Response Times](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/response-times-3-important-limits/)
- [Progress Indicators](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/progress-indicators/)
- [GOV.UK Loading patterns discussion](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/Loading-patterns-v0x8Xych1PbZQXOlbP3L6)
- [Avoid the Spinner](https://www.lukew.com/ff/entry.asp?1797)
- [ARIA Live Regions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/ARIA_Live_Regions)
