packages/docs/content/components/tooltip.mdx, before:

---
title: Tooltip
status: draft
intro: Tooltips provide additional information upon hover, focus or click. The information should be contextual, useful, and nonessential information.
core:
  githubLink: design-system/src/components/Tooltip
  sketchLink: R1zwPYW
  storybookLink: components-tooltip--icon-trigger
healthcare:
  sketchLink: g0k9EVJ
medicare:
  sketchLink: My311v3
---

## Examples

The `Tooltip` component can render a variety of content ranging from short descriptive text, to paragraphs with links, or more complex interactive popovers.

The component provides a variety of props to configure tooltip behavior for these different use cases (i.e. `interactive`, `dialog`), and to customize styling (i.e. `offset`, `maxWidth`, `className`). The element that triggers a `Tooltip` can also be fully customized via props (i.e. `triggerComponent`, `triggerContent`).

This component makes use of [`@popperjs/core`](https://popper.js.org/docs/v2/) for tooltip positioning, [`focus-trap-react`](https://github.com/focus-trap/focus-trap-react#readme) for trapping focus in Tooltip Dialogs, and [`react-transition-group`](http://reactcommunity.org/react-transition-group/css-transition) for animations.

### Icon Trigger

<StorybookExample
  componentName="icon tooltip"
  sourceFilePath="components/Tooltip/Tooltip.tsx"
  storyId="components-tooltip--icon-trigger"
/>

### Inline

<StorybookExample
  componentName="inline tooltip"
  sourceFilePath="components/Tooltip/Tooltip.tsx"
  storyId="components-tooltip--inline-trigger"
/>

### Interactive content

<StorybookExample
  componentName="interactive tooltip"
  sourceFilePath="components/Tooltip/Tooltip.tsx"
  storyId="components-tooltip--interactive-content"
  minHeight={350}
/>

### With Close

<StorybookExample
  componentName="tooltip with close"
  sourceFilePath="components/Tooltip/Tooltip.tsx"
  storyId="components-tooltip--tooltip-with-close-button"
  minHeight={350}
/>

## Code

### React

<PropTable componentName="Tooltip" />

### `<TooltipIcon>` component

When using the `<TooltipIcon>` as the only child of `<Tooltip>`, be sure to provide an `aria-label` on the `<Tooltip>` to ensure an accessible name for the trigger.

<PropTable componentName="TooltipIcon" />

### Styles

The following Sass variables can be overridden to customize Tooltip fields:

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="tooltip"
/>

## Guidance

### When to use

- Use for helpful, non-critical information to strengthen an existing message.
- Use to increase certainty and enhance confidence about an interaction.
- Use with brief descriptions as tooltips perform best with succinct text.
- Tooltips are useful as a last resort for space-constrained UI. Explore other options for keeping content visible without a tooltip.

### When to consider alternatives

- Don’t hide information necessary for completing a task behind a tooltip interaction.
- Tooltips are microcopy and should be brief. Don't use a tooltip if you need a lot of text.
- Don’t use a tooltip when its content is repetitive or if usability is obvious.
- If content can fit outside a tooltip, don't use a tooltip.

Commit message:

Added exceptions page and modified other pages to add M.gov guidelines

packages/docs/content/components/tooltip.mdx, after:

---
title: Tooltip
status: draft
intro: Tooltips provide additional information upon hover, focus or click. The information should be contextual, useful, and nonessential information.
core:
  githubLink: design-system/src/components/Tooltip
  sketchLink: R1zwPYW
  storybookLink: components-tooltip--icon-trigger
healthcare:
  sketchLink: g0k9EVJ
medicare:
  sketchLink: My311v3
---

<ThemeContent onlyThemes={['medicare']}>

### Guidance

- Use a dashed underline link design.
- Be a hover over interaction on desktop and click to activate on mobile.
- Appear right next the linked term.
- Words in a tool tip won't break over lines for legibility.
- A tool tip link can break over lines, if needed.
- When the tool tip defines a term: Repeat the linked term at the top of the tool tip (bold styling).<br />
 Have space for next line of text be a soft-return (single line spacing).
- When the tool tip is just contextual help: Don't include the linked term at the top of the tool tip.

### Content guidelines

- Limit text to no more than 240 characters for optimum user experience.
- If required to include a legal disclaimer to point to Medicare glossary, the disclaimer isn't included in character count.
- If more than 300 characters, use a help drawer instead of a tool tip.

</ThemeContent>

## Examples

The `Tooltip` component can render a variety of content ranging from short descriptive text, to paragraphs with links, or more complex interactive popovers.

The component provides a variety of props to configure tooltip behavior for these different use cases (i.e. `interactive`, `dialog`), and to customize styling (i.e. `offset`, `maxWidth`, `className`). The element that triggers a `Tooltip` can also be fully customized via props (i.e. `triggerComponent`, `triggerContent`).

This component makes use of [`@popperjs/core`](https://popper.js.org/docs/v2/) for tooltip positioning, [`focus-trap-react`](https://github.com/focus-trap/focus-trap-react#readme) for trapping focus in Tooltip Dialogs, and [`react-transition-group`](http://reactcommunity.org/react-transition-group/css-transition) for animations.

### Icon Trigger

<StorybookExample
  componentName="icon tooltip"
  sourceFilePath="components/Tooltip/Tooltip.tsx"
  storyId="components-tooltip--icon-trigger"
/>

### Inline

<StorybookExample
  componentName="inline tooltip"
  sourceFilePath="components/Tooltip/Tooltip.tsx"
  storyId="components-tooltip--inline-trigger"
/>

### Interactive content

<StorybookExample
  componentName="interactive tooltip"
  sourceFilePath="components/Tooltip/Tooltip.tsx"
  storyId="components-tooltip--interactive-content"
  minHeight={350}
/>

### With Close

<StorybookExample
  componentName="tooltip with close"
  sourceFilePath="components/Tooltip/Tooltip.tsx"
  storyId="components-tooltip--tooltip-with-close-button"
  minHeight={350}
/>

## Code

### React

<PropTable componentName="Tooltip" />

### `<TooltipIcon>` component

When using the `<TooltipIcon>` as the only child of `<Tooltip>`, be sure to provide an `aria-label` on the `<Tooltip>` to ensure an accessible name for the trigger.

<PropTable componentName="TooltipIcon" />

### Styles

The following Sass variables can be overridden to customize Tooltip fields:

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="tooltip"
/>

## Guidance

### When to use

- Use for helpful, non-critical information to strengthen an existing message.
- Use to increase certainty and enhance confidence about an interaction.
- Use with brief descriptions as tooltips perform best with succinct text.
- Tooltips are useful as a last resort for space-constrained UI. Explore other options for keeping content visible without a tooltip.

### When to consider alternatives

- Don’t hide information necessary for completing a task behind a tooltip interaction.
- Tooltips are microcopy and should be brief. Don't use a tooltip if you need a lot of text.
- Don’t use a tooltip when its content is repetitive or if usability is obvious.
- If content can fit outside a tooltip, don't use a tooltip.
