packages/docs/content/components/uSA-banner.mdx, before:

---
title: USA banner
status: draft
relatedUswdsGuidance: components/banner
---

The USA banner identifies official websites of government organizations in the United States. It also helps visitors understand how to tell that a website is both official and secure.

## `<UsaBanner>`

### English

<StorybookExample
  componentName="english USA banner"
  sourceFilePath="components/UsaBanner/UsaBanner.tsx"
  storyId="components-usa-banner--english-banner"
  minHeight={250}
/>

### Spanish

<StorybookExample
  componentName="spanish USA banner"
  sourceFilePath="components/UsaBanner/UsaBanner.tsx"
  storyId="components-usa-banner--spanish-banner"
  minHeight={250}
/>

### Props

<PropTable componentName="UsaBanner" />

## Guidance

### When to use

- To identify as an official government site. Most government sites should use the banner.

### When to consider alternatives

- If you don't use a .gov domain and HTTPS. The banner text identifies .gov domains and HTTPS as indicators that a website is an official government website. Use the banner only if your site uses both the proper TLD and HTTPS.
- Any time it would be misleading. The banner should be used to reduce confusion. Avoid using the banner on any site meant only for testing or otherwise not meant to be identified as an official government website.

### Usage

- Use the provided text without customization. The banner is most effective as an identifier and a learning tool when its message is consistent across government websites.
- Show the banner on every page. Use the banner at the top of every page of a site. It can be confusing or misleading if it appears on some pages and not others.
- Avoid distraction. The banner appears on every page of your site. Choose background colors that fit with your site theme and avoid color combinations that draw excessive attention to the banner.
- Keep the text up-to-date. Use the most current version of the banner.

## Customization

The following Sass variables can be overridden to customize UsaBanner components:

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="usa-banner"
/>

Commit message:

[WNMGDS-1722] component page header (#1977)
* removing unused files

* removing related uswds frontmatter field

* component page header link items

* theme based links for component pages

* adding intro into page header

* cleanup

* updates

* [WNMGDS-1722] component content update (#1985)

* removing ViewSourceLink

* moving intro text into frontmatter

* adding links wip

* updated component links

* fixing image asset url

* updated component github links to link to source directory

packages/docs/content/components/uSA-banner.mdx, after:

---
title: USA banner
status: draft
intro: The USA banner identifies official websites of government organizations in the United States. It also helps visitors understand how to tell that a website is both official and secure.
core:
  githubLink: design-system/src/components/UsaBanner
  sketchLink: paz0Vko
  storybookLink: components-usa-banner--english-banner
healthcare:
  sketchLink: 25qAbzl
---


## `<UsaBanner>`

### English

<StorybookExample
  componentName="english USA banner"
  storyId="components-usa-banner--english-banner"
  minHeight={250}
/>

### Spanish

<StorybookExample
  componentName="spanish USA banner"
  sourceFilePath="components/UsaBanner/UsaBanner.tsx"
  storyId="components-usa-banner--spanish-banner"
  minHeight={250}
/>

### Props

<PropTable componentName="UsaBanner" />

## Guidance

### When to use

- To identify as an official government site. Most government sites should use the banner.

### When to consider alternatives

- If you don't use a .gov domain and HTTPS. The banner text identifies .gov domains and HTTPS as indicators that a website is an official government website. Use the banner only if your site uses both the proper TLD and HTTPS.
- Any time it would be misleading. The banner should be used to reduce confusion. Avoid using the banner on any site meant only for testing or otherwise not meant to be identified as an official government website.

### Usage

- Use the provided text without customization. The banner is most effective as an identifier and a learning tool when its message is consistent across government websites.
- Show the banner on every page. Use the banner at the top of every page of a site. It can be confusing or misleading if it appears on some pages and not others.
- Avoid distraction. The banner appears on every page of your site. Choose background colors that fit with your site theme and avoid color combinations that draw excessive attention to the banner.
- Keep the text up-to-date. Use the most current version of the banner.

## Customization

The following Sass variables can be overridden to customize UsaBanner components:

<ComponentThemeOptions
  componentname="usa-banner"
/>
