packages/docs/content/components/usa-banner.mdx, before:

---
title: USA Banner
intro: The USA banner identifies official websites of government organizations in the United States. It also helps visitors understand how to tell that a website is both official and secure.
core:
  githubLink: design-system/src/components/UsaBanner
  sketchLink: paz0Vko
  storybookLink: components-usabanner--docs
healthcare:
  sketchLink: 25qAbzl
---

## Examples

### English

<StorybookExample
  componentName="english USA banner"
  storyId="components-usabanner--english-banner"
  minHeight={250}
/>

### Spanish

<StorybookExample
  componentName="spanish USA banner"
  sourceFilePath="components/UsaBanner/UsaBanner.tsx"
  storyId="components-usabanner--spanish-banner"
  minHeight={250}
/>

## Code

### React

<SeeStorybookForReactGuidance storyId={'components-usabanner--docs'} />

### Styles

The following CSS variables can be overridden to customize UsaBanner components:

<ComponentThemeOptions componentname="usa-banner" />

## Guidance

### When to use

- To identify as an official government site. Most government sites should use the banner.

### When to consider alternatives

- If you don't use a .gov domain and HTTPS. The banner text identifies .gov domains and HTTPS as indicators that a website is an official government website. Use the banner only if your site uses both the proper TLD and HTTPS.
- Any time it would be misleading. The banner should be used to reduce confusion. Avoid using the banner on any site meant only for testing or otherwise not meant to be identified as an official government website.

### Usage

- Use the provided text without customization. The banner is most effective as an identifier and a learning tool when its message is consistent across government websites.
- Show the banner on every page. Use the banner at the top of every page of a site. It can be confusing or misleading if it appears on some pages and not others.
- Avoid distraction. The banner appears on every page of your site. Choose background colors that fit with your site theme and avoid color combinations that draw excessive attention to the banner.
- Keep the text up-to-date. Use the most current version of the banner.

## Component maturity

<MaturityChecklist
  a11yStandards={true}
  color={true}
  forcedColors={false}
  screenReaders={true}
  keyboardNavigable={true}
  storybook={true}
  responsive={true}
  spanish={true}
  completeUiKit={false}
  responsiveUiKit={false}
  tokensInCode={true}
  tokensInSketch={true}
/>

Commit message:

[WNMGDS-2379] Update USA banner code (#2578)
* Initial USA banner refactor work.

* Update locale files, reorganize text, fix incorrect apostrophe, update English banner label.

* Implement desktop layout of USA banner.

* Remove TODOs from tsx.

* Create tokens and add to CSS.

* Remove optional indicator on exported token interface - was preventing export of global tokens

* Generate new USABanner tokens.

* Fix CSS var spelling errors, refactor layout styles, improve media queries.

* Add underline to desktop action text.

* Update unit tests/snapshots

* Fix action text to look like links

* Update VRTs for usa banner

* Create mixin for screen-reader styles.

* Change max-width of banner on mgov to unset to accommodate mgov header width

* Update VRT

* Removing locale Stories for USA banner as it results in broken translation logic.

* Update VRT

* Update media query to better account for Spanish layout

* Remove ability to theme font treatment and icon colors across CMS domains. Create local CSS vars for easier updating later on.

* Update VRT

* Refactor to lean on utility font classes more, update icon colors.

packages/docs/content/components/usa-banner.mdx, after:

---
title: USA Banner
intro: The USA banner identifies official websites of government organizations in the United States. It also helps visitors understand how to tell that a website is both official and secure.
core:
  githubLink: design-system/src/components/UsaBanner
  sketchLink: paz0Vko
  storybookLink: components-usabanner--docs
healthcare:
  sketchLink: 25qAbzl
---

## Example

<StorybookExample
  componentName="USA banner"
  storyId="components-usabanner--default"
  minHeight={250}
/>

### Localization options

English and Spanish translations of `<USABanner />` are available through Storybook.

To change the language in which a component is rendered, use the dropdown menu called **🌐 Language** in Storybook's toolbar and select your language. Examples with available English and Spanish translations will automatically change to reflect the selected language.

## Code

### React

<SeeStorybookForReactGuidance storyId={'components-usabanner--docs'} />

### Styles

The following CSS variables can be overridden to customize UsaBanner components:

<ComponentThemeOptions componentname="usa-banner" />

## Guidance

### When to use

- To identify as an official government site. Most government sites should use the banner.

### When to consider alternatives

- If you don't use a .gov domain and HTTPS. The banner text identifies .gov domains and HTTPS as indicators that a website is an official government website. Use the banner only if your site uses both the proper TLD and HTTPS.
- Any time it would be misleading. The banner should be used to reduce confusion. Avoid using the banner on any site meant only for testing or otherwise not meant to be identified as an official government website.

### Usage

- Use the provided text without customization. The banner is most effective as an identifier and a learning tool when its message is consistent across government websites.
- Show the banner on every page. Use the banner at the top of every page of a site. It can be confusing or misleading if it appears on some pages and not others.
- Avoid distraction. The banner appears on every page of your site. Choose background colors that fit with your site theme and avoid color combinations that draw excessive attention to the banner.
- Keep the text up-to-date. Use the most current version of the banner.

## Component maturity

<MaturityChecklist
  a11yStandards={true}
  color={true}
  forcedColors={false}
  screenReaders={true}
  keyboardNavigable={true}
  storybook={true}
  responsive={true}
  spanish={true}
  completeUiKit={false}
  responsiveUiKit={false}
  tokensInCode={true}
  tokensInSketch={true}
/>
